 
--H.R.7--
H.R.7
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act to improve the provision
of services under such Act and to extend the authorities contained in such
Act through the fiscal year 1995, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 (a) THIS ACT- This Act may be cited as the `Carl D. Perkins Vocational and
 Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS- Section 1 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act
 (in this Act referred to as the `Act') (20 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended to
 read as follows:
`SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 `(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Carl D. Perkins Vocational
 and Applied Technology Education Act'.
 `(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
`TABLE OF CONTENTS
`Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
`Sec. 2. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 3. Authorization of appropriations.
`TITLE I--VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ASSISTANCE TO THE STATES
`Part A--Allotment and Allocation
`Sec. 101. Allotment.
`Sec. 101A. The territories.
`Sec. 102. Within State allocation.
`Sec. 103. Indian and Hawaiian natives programs.
`Part B--State Organizational and Planning Responsibilities
`Sec. 111. State administration.
`Sec. 112. State council on vocational education.
`Sec. 113. State plan.
`Sec. 114. State plan approval.
`Sec. 115. State and local standards and measures.
`Sec. 116. State assessment and evaluation.
`Sec. 117. Program evaluation and improvement.
`Sec. 118. Criteria for services and activities for individuals who are
members of special populations.
`TITLE II--BASIC STATE GRANTS FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
`Part A--State Programs
`Sec. 201. State programs and State leadership.
`Part B--Other State-Administered Programs
`Subpart 1--Programs to Provide Single Parents, Displaced Homemakers, and
Single Pregnant Women With Marketable Skills and to Promote the Elimination
of Sex Bias
`Sec. 221. Programs for single parents, displaced homemakers, and single
pregnant women.
`Sec. 222. Sex equity programs.
`Sec. 223. Competitive award of amounts; evaluation of programs.
`Subpart 2--Corrections Education
`Sec. 225. Programs for criminal offenders.
`Part C--Secondary, Postsecondary, and Adult Vocational Education Programs
`Subpart 1--Within State Allocation
`Sec. 231. Distribution of funds to secondary school programs.
`Sec. 232. Distribution of funds to postsecondary and adult programs.
`Sec. 233. Special rule for minimal allocation.
`Sec. 234. Reallocation.
`Subpart 2--Uses of Funds
`Sec. 235. Uses of funds.
`Subpart 3--Local Application
`Sec. 240. Local application.
`TITLE III--SPECIAL PROGRAMS
`Part A--State Assistance for Vocational Education Support Programs by
Community-Based Organizations
`Sec. 301. Applications.
`Sec. 302. Uses of funds.
`Part B--Consumer and Homemaking Education
`Sec. 311. Consumer and homemaking education grants.
`Sec. 312. Use of funds from consumer and homemaking education grants.
`Sec. 313. Information dissemination and leadership.
`Part C--Comprehensive Career Guidance and Counseling Programs
`Sec. 321. Grants for career guidance and counseling.
`Sec. 322. Use of funds from career guidance and counseling grants.
`Sec. 323. Information dissemination and leadership.
`Part D--Business-Labor-Education Partnership for Training
`Sec. 331. Findings and purpose.
`Sec. 332. Authorization of grants.
`Sec. 333. Use of funds.
`Part E--Tech-Prep Education
`Sec. 341. Short title.
`Sec. 342. Findings and purpose.
`Sec. 343. Program authorized.
`Sec. 344. Tech-prep education programs.
`Sec. 345. Applications.
`Sec. 346. Reports.
`Sec. 347. Definitions.
`Part F--Supplementary State Grants for Facilities and Equipment and Other
Program Improvement Activities
`Sec. 351. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 352. Allotment to States.
`Sec. 353. Allocation to local educational agencies.
`Sec. 354. Uses of funds.
`Sec. 355. State applications.
`Sec. 356. Local applications.
`Part G--Community Education Employment Centers and Vocational Education
Lighthouse Schools
`Subpart 1--Community Education Employment Centers
`Sec. 361. Short title.
`Sec. 362. Purpose.
`Sec. 363. Program authorized.
`Sec. 364. Program requirements.
`Sec. 365. Support services requirements.
`Sec. 366. Parental and community participation.
`Sec. 367. Professional staff.
`Sec. 368. Eligibility.
`Sec. 369. Application.
`Sec. 370. Evaluation and report.
`Sec. 371. Definitions.
`Subpart 2--Vocational Education Lighthouse Schools
`Sec. 375. Vocational education lighthouse schools.
`Part H--Tribally Controlled Postsecondary Vocational Institutions
`Sec. 381. Short title.
`Sec. 382. Purpose.
`Sec. 383. Grants authorized.
`Sec. 384. Eligible grant recipients.
`Sec. 385. Grants to tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions.
`Sec. 386. Amounts of grants.
`Sec. 387. Effect on other programs.
`Sec. 388. Grant adjustments.
`Sec. 389. Report on facilities and facilities improvement.
`Sec. 390. Definitions.
`TITLE IV--NATIONAL PROGRAMS
`Part A--Research and Development
`Sec. 401. Research objectives.
`Sec. 402. Research activities.
`Sec. 403. National assessment of vocational education programs.
`Sec. 404. National Center or Centers for Research in Vocational Education.
`Part B--Demonstration Programs
`Sec. 411. Programs authorized.
`Sec. 412. Materials development in telecommunications.
`Sec. 413. Demonstration centers for the training of dislocated workers.
`Sec. 414. Professional development.
`Sec. 415. Blue ribbon vocational education programs.
`Sec. 416. Development of business and education standards.
`Sec. 417. Educational programs for Federal correctional institutions.
`Sec. 418. Dropout prevention.
`Sec. 419. Model programs of regional training for skilled trades.
`Sec. 420. Demonstration projects for the integration of vocational and
academic learning.
`Sec. 420A. Cooperative Demonstration Programs.
`Part C--Vocational Education and Occupational Information Data Systems
`Sec. 421. Data systems authorized.
`Sec. 422. National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee.
`Sec. 423. Information base for vocational education data system.
`Sec. 424. Miscellaneous provisions.
`Part D--National Council on Vocational Education
`Sec. 431. Council established.
`Part E--Bilingual Vocational Training
`Sec. 441. Program authorized.
`Part F--General Provisions
`Sec. 451. Distribution of assistance.
`TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS
`Part A--Federal Administrative Provisions
`Sec. 501. Payments.
`Sec. 502. Maintenance of effort.
`Sec. 503. Authority to make payments.
`Sec. 504. Regional meetings and negotiated rulemaking.
`Sec. 505. Requirements relating to reports, plans, and regulations.
`Sec. 506. Federal laws guaranteeing civil rights.
`Sec. 507. Student assistance and other Federal programs.
`Sec. 508. Federal monitoring.
`Part B--State Administrative Provisions
`Sec. 511. Joint funding.
`Sec. 512. Review of regulations.
`Sec. 513. Identification of State-imposed requirements.
`Sec. 514. Prohibition on use of funds to induce out-of-State relocation
of businesses.
`Sec. 515. State administrative costs.
`Sec. 516. Additional administrative requirements.
`Part C--Definitions
`Sec. 521. Definitions.'.
SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 Section 2 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2301) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this Act to make the United States more competitive
 in the world economy by developing more fully the academic and occupational
 skills of all segments of the population. This purpose will principally be
 achieved through concentrating resources on improving educational programs
 leading to academic and occupational skill competencies needed to work in
 a technologically advanced society.'.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 3 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2302) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated $1,600,000,000 for
 the fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
 years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995 to carry out the provisions of titles I,
 II, III, and IV of this Act.
 `(b) TITLE I- (1) Of the amounts remaining from amounts made available
 under subsection (a) after providing amounts for the programs described in
 paragraph (2) and subsections (d) and (f)--
 `(A) 1.5 percent shall be available to carry out the provisions of section
 103, relating to Indian and Hawaiian natives programs; and
 `(B) .2 percent shall be available to carry out the provisions of section
 101A, relating to the territories.
 `(2) Of the amounts made available in the fiscal year 1991 under subsection
 (a), not more than $9,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of section 112, relating to State councils on vocational education.
 `(c) BASIC PROGRAMS- Of the amounts remaining from amounts made available
 under subsection (a) after providing amounts for the programs described in
 subsections (b)(2), (d), and (f), 95.8 percent shall be available to carry
 out the provisions of title II, relating to basic programs.
 `(d) SPECIAL PROGRAMS- (1) Subject to paragraph (2), of the amounts made
 available under subsection (a) for the fiscal year 1991--
 `(A) not more than $15,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part A of title III, relating to State assistance for vocational education
 support programs by community-based organizations;
 `(B) not more than $38,500,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part B of title III, relating to consumer and homemaking education;
 `(C) not more than $20,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part C of title III, relating to comprehensive career guidance and
 counseling programs;
 `(D) not more than $10,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part D of title III, relating to business-labor-education partnerships;
 `(E) not more than $125,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part E of title III, relating to tech-prep education;
 `(F) not more than $100,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part F of title III, relating to supplementary State grants for facilities
 and equipment and other program improvement activities;
 `(G) not more than $10,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part G of title III, of which--
 `(i) an amount equal to 75 percent of the amounts made available to carry
 out such part shall be available to carry out the provisions of subpart 1
 of such part, relating to community education employment centers; and
 `(ii) an amount equal to 25 percent of the amounts made available to carry
 out such part shall be available to carry out the provisions of subpart 2
 of such part, relating to vocational education lighthouse schools; and
 `(H) not more than $4,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part H of title III, relating to tribally controlled postsecondary
 vocational institutions.
 `(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), amounts shall be
 available to carry out the provisions of part C, D, or G of title III in
 any fiscal year only to the extent that the amount available for such fiscal
 year to carry out the provisions of title II exceeds $1,000,000,000.
 `(e) NATIONAL PROGRAMS- For each fiscal year, of the amounts remaining from
 amounts available pursuant to subsection (a) after providing amounts for
 the programs described in subsections (b)(2), (d), and (f), 2.5 percent of
 such remainder shall be available to carry out the provisions of title IV
 (other than parts D and E), relating to national programs.
 `(f) OTHER NATIONAL PROGRAMS- (1) Of amounts made available under subsection
 (a) for the fiscal year 1991, not more than $350,000 shall be available to
 carry out the provisions of part D of title IV, relating to the National
 Council on Vocational Education.
 `(2) Of amounts made available under subsection (a) for the fiscal year 1991,
 not more than $10,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions
 of part E of title IV, relating to bilingual vocational training programs.'.
SEC. 4. INTERDEPARTMENTAL TASK FORCE ON COORDINATION OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
AND RELATED PROGRAMS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the Interdepartmental Task Force
 on Vocational Education and Related Programs (in this section referred to
 as the `Task Force').
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Task Force shall consist of the Secretary of Education,
 the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and
 such other personnel of the Department of Education, the Department of
 Labor, and the Department of Health and Human Services as the Secretaries
 consider appropriate.
 (c) DUTIES- The Task Force shall--
 (1) examine principal data required for programs under the Adult Education
 Act, the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act,
 the Job Training Partnership Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the
 Wagner-Peyser Act;
 (2) examine possible common objectives, definitions, measures, and standards
 for such programs; and
 (3) consider integration of research and development conducted with Federal
 assistance in the area of vocational education and related areas, including
 areas of emerging technologies.
 (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Task Force shall, every 2 years, submit a report
 on its findings to the appropriate committees of the Congress.
SEC. 5. JOINT FUNDING.
 (a) JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP ACT- (1) Section 123 of the Job Training
 Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1533) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) Sums available for this section pursuant to section 202(b)(1)
 may be used to provide additional funds under an applicable program if--
 `(A) such program otherwise meets the requirements of this Act and the
 requirements of the applicable program;
 `(B) such program serves the same individuals that are served under this
 section;
 `(C) such program provides services in a coordinated manner with services
 provided under this section; and
 `(D) such funds would be used to supplement, and not supplant, funds provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `applicable program' means
 any program under any of the following provisions of law:
 `(A) The Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.
 `(B) The Wagner-Peyser Act.'.
 (2) Section 204 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1604)
 is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 204.'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(b)(1) Funds provided under this title may be used to provide additional
 funds under an applicable program if--
 `(A) such program otherwise meets the requirements of this Act and the
 requirements of the applicable program;
 `(B) such program serves the same individuals that are served under this
 title;
 `(C) such program provides services in a coordinated manner with services
 provided under this title; and
 `(D) such funds would be used to supplement, and not supplant, funds provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `applicable program' means
 any program under any of the following provisions of law:
 `(A) The Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.
 `(B) The Wagner-Peyser Act.'.
 (3) Section 314 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1661c)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) JOINT FUNDING- (1) Funds allotted under section 302 may be used to
 provide additional funds under an applicable program if--
 `(A) such program otherwise meets the requirements of this Act and the
 requirements of the applicable program;
 `(B) such program serves the same individuals that are served under this
 title;
 `(C) such program provides services in a coordinated manner with services
 provided under this title; and
 `(D) such funds would be used to supplement, and not supplant, funds provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `applicable program' means
 any program under any of the following provisions of law:
 `(A) The Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.
 `(B) The Wagner-Peyser Act.'.
 (b) WAGNER-PEYSER ACT- Section 7 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49f)
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) Funds made available to States under this section may be used to
 provide additional funds under an applicable program if--
 `(A) such program otherwise meets the requirements of this Act and the
 requirements of the applicable program;
 `(B) such program serves the same individuals that are served under this Act;
 `(C) such program provides services in a coordinated manner with services
 provided under this Act; and
 `(D) such funds would be used to supplement, and not supplant, funds provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `applicable program' means
 any program under any of the following provisions of law:
 `(A) The Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.
 `(B) Section 123, title II, and title III of the Job Training Partnership
 Act.'.
TITLE I--VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ASSISTANCE TO THE STATES
PART A--ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION
SEC. 101. ALLOTMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 101 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2311) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(1) In each fiscal year, of the amounts remaining from amounts made available
 under section 3(a) after providing amounts for the programs described in
 subsections (b)(2), (d), and (f) of section 3, the Secretary shall reserve--
 `(A) 2.5 percent for the activities described in title IV (other than parts
 D and E);
 `(B) 1.5 percent for the purpose of carrying out section 103, of which--
 `(i) 1.25 percent shall be for the purpose of carrying out section 103(b); and
 `(ii) .25 percent shall be for the purpose of carrying out section 103(c); and
 `(C) .2 percent for the purpose of carrying out section 101A.';
 (B) in paragraph (3)--
 (i) in clause (i) of subparagraph (B)--
 (I) by striking `subparagraph (A)' and inserting `subparagraphs (A), (C),
 and (D)'; and
 (II) by striking `(D), or (E)' each place it appears and inserting `or (D)';
 (ii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:
 `(C) In the case of the Virgin Islands, the minimum allotment for all
 programs under this Act shall not be less than $200,000.';
 (iii) by adding at the end the following:
 `(D)(i) Subject to clause (iii), no State shall, by reason of subparagraph
 (B), be allotted more than the lesser of--
 `(I) 150 percent of the amount that the State received in the preceding
 fiscal year; and
 `(II) the amount calculated under clause (ii).
 `(ii) The amount calculated under this clause shall be determined by
 multiplying--
 `(I) the number of individuals in the State counted under paragraph (2)
 in the preceding fiscal year; by
 `(II) 150 percent of the national average per pupil payment made with funds
 available under this section for that year.
 `(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses (i) and (ii), no State
 shall be allotted an amount under this section in any fiscal year that is
 less than the amount such State is allotted in the fiscal year 1991.';
 (2) in subparagraph (B) of subsection (c)(1), by striking `, Guam,
 American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the
 Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' each place such phrase appears and
 inserting `and the Virgin Islands'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(d) For the purpose of this section, the term `State' means any 1 of
 the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia,
 and the Virgin Islands.'.
 (b) THE TERRITORIES- Part A of title I of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2311 et seq.) is
 amended by inserting after section 101 the following:
`SEC. 101A. THE TERRITORIES.
 `(a) THE TERRITORIES- From funds reserved pursuant to section 101(a)(1)(C),
 the Secretary shall--
 `(1) make a grant in the amount of $500,000 to Guam; and
 `(2) make a grant in the amount of $190,000 to each of American Samoa, the
 Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (until the Compact
 of Free Association with Palau takes effect pursuant to section 101(a)
 of Public Law 99-658).
 `(b) REMAINDER- Subject to the provisions of subsection (a), the Secretary
 shall make a grant of the remainder of funds reserved pursuant to section
 101(a)(1)(C) to the Center for the Advancement of Pacific Education, Honolulu,
 Hawaii, or its successor entity as the Pacific regional educational laboratory
 to make grants for vocational education and training in Guam, American Samoa,
 Palau, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Federated States of
 Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, for the purpose of
 providing direct educational services, including--
 `(1) teacher and counselor training and retraining;
 `(2) curriculum development; and
 `(3) improving vocational education and training programs in secondary schools
 and institutions of higher education, or improving cooperative programs
 involving both secondary schools and institutions of higher education.
 `(c) LIMITATION- The Center for the Advancement of Pacific Education may
 use not more than 5 percent of the funds received pursuant to subsection
 (b) for administrative costs.'.
SEC. 102. WITHIN STATE ALLOCATION.
 Section 102 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2312) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 102. WITHIN STATE ALLOCATION.
 `(a) PROGRAMS OTHER THAN STATE GRANTS- From the allotment made to each
 State from funds appropriated under section 3(a) for each fiscal year--
 `(1) an amount equal to at least 75 percent of the allotment shall be
 available only for basic programs under part C of title II;
 `(2) an amount equal to 10.5 percent of the allotment shall be available
 only for the program for single parents, displaced homemakers, and single
 pregnant women described in section 221 and the sex equity program described
 in section 222, of which--
 `(A) not less than 7 percent of such allotment shall be reserved for the
 program for single parents, displaced homemakers, and single pregnant
 women; and
 `(B) not less than 3 percent of such allotment shall be reserved for the
 sex equity program;
 `(3) an amount equal to not more than 8.5 percent of the allotment shall
 be available only for State programs and activities described in section 201;
 `(4) the State may use for administration of the State plan an amount that
 does not exceed 5 percent of the allotment or $250,000, whichever is greater,
 of which--
 `(A) not less than $60,000 shall be available only for purposes of carrying
 out the provisions of section 111(b)(1); and
 `(B) remaining amounts may be used for the costs of--
 `(i) developing the State plan;
 `(ii) reviewing local applications;
 `(iii) monitoring and evaluating program effectiveness;
 `(iv) providing technical assistance; and
 `(v) assuring compliance with all applicable Federal laws, including
 required services and activities for individuals who are members of special
 populations; and
 `(5) an amount equal to 1 percent of the allotment shall be available only
 for programs for criminal offenders under section 225.
 `(b) MATCHING REQUIREMENT- Each State receiving financial assistance under
 this Act shall match, from non-Federal sources and on a dollar-for-dollar
 basis, the funds reserved pursuant to subsection (a)(4).
 `(c) HOLD HARMLESS PROVISION- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2)
 and notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), each State shall
 reserve for the program for single parents, displaced homemakers, and single
 pregnant women under section 221, the sex equity program under section 222,
 and the program for criminal offenders under section 225, respectively,
 an amount that is not less than the amount such State reserved for each
 such program in the fiscal year 1990.
 `(2) In any year in which a State receives an amount for purposes of carrying
 out programs under title II that is less than the amount such State received
 for such purposes in the fiscal year 1990, such State shall ratably reduce
 the amounts reserved under paragraph (1).'.
SEC. 103. INDIAN AND HAWAIIAN NATIVES PROGRAMS.
 Paragraph (1) of section 103(b) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2313) is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(1)(A) From the funds reserved pursuant to section 101(a)(1)(B)(i), the
 Secretary is directed--
 `(i) upon the request of any Indian tribe which is eligible to contract with
 the Secretary of the Interior for the administration of programs under the
 Indian Self-Determination Act or under the Act of April 16, 1934; or
 `(ii) upon an application received from a Bureau funded school (as such
 term is defined in section 1139(3) of the Education Amendments of 1978)
 offering secondary programs filed at such time and under such conditions
 as the Secretary may prescribe,
to make grants to or enter into contracts with any tribal organization of
any such Indian tribe or to make a grant to such Bureau funded school, as
appropriate, to plan, conduct, and administer programs or portions of programs
authorized by and consistent with the purposes of this Act, except that--
 `(I) such grants or contracts with any tribal organization shall be subject
 to the terms and conditions of section 102 of the Indian Self-Determination
 Act and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of sections 4,
 5, and 6 of the Act of April 16, 1934, which are relevant to the programs
 administered under this sentence; and
 `(II) such grants to Bureau funded schools shall not be subject to the
 requirements of the Indian Self-Determination Act or the Act of April
 16, 1934.
 `(B)(i) Any tribal organization or school eligible to receive assistance
 under this paragraph may apply individually or as part of a consortium with
 another such tribal organization or school.
 `(ii) In the case of a Bureau funded school, the minimum amount of a grant
 made under this section shall be $35,000.
 `(C) The Secretary may not place upon grants made or contracts entered into
 under this paragraph any restrictions relating to programs or outcomes other
 than restrictions which apply to grants made to or contracts entered into
 with States under section 101. The Secretary, in making grants under this
 paragraph, shall give special consideration to--
 `(i) grants which involve, coordinate with, or encourage tribal economic
 development plans; and
 `(ii) applications from tribally controlled community colleges which--
 `(I) are accredited or are candidates for accreditation by a nationally
 recognized accreditation organization as an institution of postsecondary
 vocational education; or
 `(II) operate vocational education programs that are accredited or are
 candidates for accreditation by a nationally recognized accreditation
 organization and issue certificates for completion of vocational education
 programs.'.
PART B--STATE ORGANIZATIONAL AND PLANNING RESPONSIBILITIES
SEC. 111. STATE ADMINISTRATION.
 Section 111 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2321) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by striking `113(b)(9)' and inserting `113(b)(8),
 section 116, and section 117';
 (2) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by inserting `, including business, industry,
 and labor,' before `involved';
 (3) in subsection (b)(1)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A)--
 (i) by striking `201(f)' and inserting `221'; and
 (ii) by striking `201(g)' and inserting `222';
 (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (F), and (G), as
 subparagraphs (D), (E), (F), (G), and (H), respectively;
 (C) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
 subparagraph (B) of this paragraph);
 (D) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (G) (as redesignated
 by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph) and inserting a semicolon; and
 (E) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
 `(C) reviewing and commenting upon, and making recommendations concerning,
 the plans of local educational agencies, area vocational education schools,
 intermediate educational agencies, and postsecondary educational institutions
 to ensure that the needs of women and men for training in nontraditional
 jobs are met;'; and
 (F) by adding at the end the following:
 `(I) developing an annual plan for the use of all funds available for
 such programs;
 `(J) managing the distribution of funds pursuant to section 223;
 `(K) monitoring the use of funds distributed to recipients under such
 programs; and
 `(L) evaluating the effectiveness of programs and activities supported by
 such funds.';
 (4) in subsection (b)(3) by inserting `from funds allocated under section
 102(a)(4)(A)' before `expend';
 (5) by striking subsection (e);
 (6) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (f) and (g),
 respectively; and
 (7) by inserting the following new subsections after subsection (b):
 `(c) REVIEW OF PLANS WITH RESPECT TO STUDENTS WITH HANDICAPS- (1) Any State
 desiring to participate in the programs authorized by this Act shall designate
 or assign the head of the State office responsible for administering part B
 of the Education of the Handicapped Act to review the implementation of the
 provisions of this Act as such provisions relate to students with handicaps by
 reviewing all or a representative sample of plans of eligible recipients to--
 `(A) assure that individuals with handicaps are receiving vocational
 educational services;
 `(B) assure that the plans of the eligible recipient provide assurances of
 compliance with the provisions of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act
 of 1973 and the Education of Handicapped Act regarding equal access to
 programs; and
 `(C) assure that the eligible recipients have--
 `(i) identified the number of students with handicaps enrolled in vocational
 programs operated by the eligible recipient;
 `(ii) assessed the vocational needs of the students identified pursuant to
 clause (i); and
 `(iii) developed an adequate plan to provide supplementary services sufficient
 to meet the needs of such students.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection and subsections (d) and (e), the term
 `State' means any 1 of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 `(d) NEEDS OF ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS- Any State desiring
 to participate in the programs authorized by this Act shall assign the
 head of the State office or other appropriate individual responsible for
 coordinating services under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 to review all or a representative sample of
 plans of the eligible recipients to ensure that the number of economically
 disadvantaged students have been identified, and that the needs of such
 students are being met as outlined by such plans.
 `(e) NEEDS OF STUDENTS OF LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY- Any State desiring to
 participate in the programs authorized by this Act shall designate or assign
 the head of the State office or other appropriate individual responsible
 for administering programs for students of limited English proficiency
 to review all or a representative sample of the plans of the eligible
 recipients to ensure the numbers of students of limited English proficiency
 have been identified and that the needs of such students for participation
 in vocational education programs are being met as outlined by such plans.'.
SEC. 112. STATE COUNCIL ON VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
 Section 112 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2322) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by inserting `trade organizations,' after
 `industry,';
 (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 `and may include members of vocational student organizations and school
 board members.';
 (3) in subsection (a), by inserting the following new sentence at the end
 of the matter following paragraph (2): `No employee of the State board
 shall serve on the State council.';
 (4) in subsection (d)(2), by--
 (A) striking `advise' and inserting `make recommendations to';
 (B) redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as subparagraphs (B) and (C),
 respectively; and
 (C) inserting the following new subparagraph (A) before subparagraph (B)
 (as redesignated by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph):
 `(A) the State plan;';
 (5) in subsection (d)(8), by--
 (A) striking `the individuals described in section 201(b)' and inserting
 `individuals who are members of special populations'; and
 (B) striking `and' at the end;
 (6) by striking subsection (d)(9) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
 `(9) analyze and review corrections education programs; and
 `(10)(A) evaluate at least once every 2 years--
 `(i) the extent to which vocational education, employment, and training
 programs in the State represent a consistent, integrated, and coordinated
 approach to meeting the economic needs of the State;
 `(ii) the vocational education program delivery system assisted under this
 Act, and the job training program delivery system assisted under the Job
 Training Partnership Act, in terms of such delivery systems' adequacy and
 effectiveness in achieving the purposes of each of the 2 Acts; and
 `(iii) make recommendations to the State board on the adequacy and
 effectiveness of the coordination that takes place between vocational
 education and the Job Training Partnership Act;
 `(B) comment on the adequacy or inadequacy of State action in implementing
 the State plan;
 `(C) make recommendations to the State board on ways to create greater
 incentives for joint planning and collaboration between the vocational
 education system and the job training system at the State and local levels;
 and
 `(D) advise the Governor, the State board, the State job training coordinating
 council, the Secretary, and the Secretary of Labor regarding such evaluation,
 findings, and recommendations.';
 (7) in subsection (e) by inserting the following new sentences at the end:
 `Each State Council may submit a statement to the Secretary reviewing
 and commenting upon the State plan. Such statement shall be sent to the
 Secretary with the State plan.';
 (8) by amending subsection (f)(1)(A) to read as follows:
 `(f)(1)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), from the sums appropriated
 pursuant to section 3(c), the Secretary shall first make grants of $150,000
 to each State council. From the remainder of such sums the Secretary shall
 allot to each State council an amount in accordance with the method of
 allotment set forth in section 101(a)(2) of this Act, provided that--
 `(i) no State council shall receive more than $250,000 for each fiscal year;
 `(ii) no State council shall receive less than $150,000 for each fiscal
 year; and
 `(iii) no State council shall receive less than such State council was
 allotted in the fiscal year 1990;'; and
 (9) by amending subsection (f)(1)(B) to read as follows:
 `(B) From the sums appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) for each fiscal
 year, the Secretary shall make grants of--
 `(i) $60,000 to each of the State councils of the Virgin Islands and Guam; and
 `(ii) $25,000 to each of the State councils of American Samoa, Palau (until
 the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect pursuant to section
 101(a) of Public Law 99-658), and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
 Islands.'.
SEC. 113. STATE PLAN.
 Section 113 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2323) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 113. STATE PLAN.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- (1)(A) Any State desiring to receive funds from its allotment
 for any fiscal year shall submit to the Secretary a State plan for a 3-year
 period, in the case of the initial plan, and a 2-year period thereafter,
 together with such annual revisions as the State board determines to be
 necessary.
 `(B) The planning periods required by subparagraph (A) shall be coterminous
 with the planning program periods required under section 104(a) of the Job
 Training Partnership Act.
 `(2)(A) In formulating the State plan (and amendments thereto), the State
 board shall meet with and utilize the State council established pursuant
 to section 112.
 `(B) The State board shall conduct public hearings in the State, after
 appropriate and sufficient notice, for the purpose of affording all segments
 of the public and interested organizations and groups an opportunity to
 present their views and make recommendations regarding the State plan. A
 summary of such recommendations and the State board's response shall be
 included with the State plan.
 `(3) In developing the State plan, the State shall conduct an assessment
 according to section 116. Such assessment shall include analysis of--
 `(A) the relative academic, occupational, training, and retraining needs
 of secondary, adult, and postsecondary students; and
 `(B) the capability of vocational education programs to provide vocational
 education students, to the extent practicable, with--
 `(i) strong experience in and understanding of all aspects of the industry the
 students are preparing to enter (including planning, management, finances,
 technical and production skills, underlying principles of technology,
 labor and community issues, and health, safety, and environmental issues); and
 `(ii) strong development and use of problem-solving skills and basic and
 advanced academic skills (including skills in the areas of mathematics,
 reading, writing, science, and social studies) in a technological setting.
 `(b) CONTENTS- Each State plan shall--
 `(1) describe the procedures and the results of each of the assessments
 required by section 116(a), including the needs identified by such
 assessments;
 `(2) describe how uses of funds reflect the needs described in paragraph (1);
 `(3) provide assurances that, and where necessary a description of the
 manner in which, eligible recipients will comply with the requirements of
 titles I and II, including--
 `(A) a description of the manner in which the State will comply with the
 criteria required for programs for individuals who are members of special
 populations and a description of the responsiveness of such programs to
 the special needs of such students;
 `(B) assurances that the State board will develop measurable goals and
 accountability measures for meeting the needs of individuals who are members
 of special populations;
 `(C) assurances that the State board will conduct adequate monitoring of
 programs conducted by eligible recipients to ensure that programs within
 the State are meeting the goals described in subparagraph (B); and
 `(D) assurances that, to the extent consistent with the number and location
 of individuals who are members of special populations who are enrolled in
 private secondary schools, provision is made for the participation of such
 individuals in the vocational education programs assisted under section 231;
 `(4) describe the estimated distribution of funds to corrections educational
 agencies as prescribed by section 225, the estimated distribution of funds to
 local educational agencies, area vocational education schools, or intermediate
 educational agencies as prescribed by section 231, and the planned estimated
 distribution of funds to eligible institutions as prescribed by section 232;
 `(5) provide assurances that the State will comply with the provisions
 of section 102, including assurances that the State will distribute not
 less than 75 percent of the funds made available for title II to eligible
 recipients pursuant to such title;
 `(6) describe the criteria the State board will use--
 `(A) in approving applications of eligible recipients; and
 `(B) for spending the amounts reserved for the State under paragraphs (2)
 through (5) of section 102(a);
 `(7) describe how funds expended for occupationally specific training will
 be used for occupations in which job openings are projected or available,
 based on a labor market analysis;
 `(8) provide assurances that the State will develop and implement a system of
 standards for performance and measures of performance for vocational education
 programs at the State level that meets the requirements of section 115;
 `(9) describe, in each State plan submitted after the fiscal year 1991,
 the progress the State has made in achieving the goals described in previous
 State plans;
 `(10) provide such methods of administration as are necessary for the prompt
 and efficient administration of programs under this Act;
 `(11) provide assurances that, in the use of funds available for single
 parents, displaced homemakers, and single pregnant women under section 221,
 the State will emphasize assisting individuals with the greatest financial
 need, and that the State will give special consideration to displaced
 homemakers who because of divorce, separation, or the death or disability
 of a spouse must prepare for paid employment;
 `(12) provide assurances that the State will furnish relevant training
 and vocational education activities to men and women who desire to enter
 occupations that are not traditionally associated with their sex;
 `(13) describe how the State is implementing performance evaluations with
 eligible recipients as prescribed in section 117;
 `(14) describe the methods proposed for the joint planning and coordination
 of programs carried out under this Act with programs conducted under the
 Job Training Partnership Act, the Adult Education Act, chapter 1 of title I
 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, the Education of the
 Handicapped Act, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and with apprenticeship
 programs;
 `(15) provide assurances that programs of personnel development and curriculum
 development shall be funded to further the goals identified in the State plan;
 `(16) provide assurances that the vocational education needs of identifiable
 segments of the population in the State that have the highest rates
 of unemployment have been thoroughly assessed, and that such needs are
 reflected in and addressed by the State plan;
 `(17) provide assurances that the State board will cooperate with the State
 council in carrying out the Board's duties under this part;
 `(18) provide assurances that none of the funds expended under this Act
 will be used to acquire equipment (including computer software) in any
 instance in which such acquisition results in a direct financial benefit
 to any organization representing the interests of the purchasing entity or
 its employees or any affiliate of such an organization;
 `(19) provide assurances that State and local funds will be used in the
 schools of each local educational agency that are receiving funds under this
 Act to provide services which, taken as a whole, are at least comparable to
 services being provided in schools in such agency which are not receiving
 such funds;
 `(20)(A) provide assurances that the State will provide leadership,
 supervision, and resources for comprehensive career guidance, vocational
 counseling, and placement programs;
 `(B) as a component of the assurances described in subparagraph (A), annually
 assess and report on the degree to which expenditures aggregated within
 the State for career guidance and vocational counseling from allotments
 under title II are not less than such expenditures for such guidance and
 counseling within the State in the fiscal year 1988;
 `(21) provide assurances that the State will provide for such fiscal control
 and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper
 disbursement of, and accounting for, Federal funds paid to the State
 (including such funds paid by the State to eligible recipients under
 this Act);
 `(22) provide procedures by which an area vocational education school,
 intermediate educational agency, or local educational agency may appeal
 decisions adverse to its interests with respect to programs assisted under
 this Act; and
 `(23) describe how the State will comply with the provisions of section 118.
 `(c) AMENDMENTS TO STATE PLAN- When changes in program conditions, labor
 market conditions, funding, or other factors require substantial amendment
 to an approved State plan, the State board, in consultation with the State
 council, shall submit amendments to such State plan to the Secretary. Any such
 amendments shall be subject to review by the State job training coordinating
 council and the State council.'.
SEC. 114. STATE PLAN APPROVAL.
 Section 114 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2324) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 114. STATE PLAN APPROVAL.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The State board shall develop the portion of each State
 plan relating to the amount and uses of any funds proposed to be reserved
 for adult education, postsecondary education, tech-prep education, and
 secondary education after consultation with the State agency responsible for
 supervision of community colleges, technical institutes, or other 2-year
 postsecondary institutions primarily engaged in providing postsecondary
 vocational education, and the State agency responsible for secondary
 education. The State board shall, in developing such plan, take into
 consideration the relative training and retraining needs of secondary,
 adult, and postsecondary students, and shall include the State's rationale
 for distribution of funds. If a State agency finds that a portion of the
 final State plan is objectionable, such agency shall file such objections
 with the State board. The State board shall respond to any objections of
 such agency in submitting such plan to the Secretary. The Secretary shall
 consider such comments in reviewing the State plan.
 `(b) TIME FOR SUBMISSION; APPROVAL- Each State plan shall be submitted to
 the Secretary by May 1 preceding the beginning of the first fiscal year
 for which such plan is to be in effect. The Secretary shall approve each
 plan before the expiration of the 60-day period beginning on the date the
 plan is submitted, if the plan meets the requirements of section 113 and
 is of sufficient quality to meet the objectives of this Act (including
 the objective of developing and implementing program evaluations and
 improvements), and shall subsequently take appropriate actions to monitor
 the State's compliance with the provisions of its plan and the requirements
 of this Act on a regular basis. The Secretary shall not finally disapprove
 a State plan except after giving reasonable notice and an opportunity for
 a hearing to the State board.'.
SEC. 115. STATE AND LOCAL STANDARDS AND MEASURES.
 Section 115 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2325) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 115. STATE AND LOCAL STANDARDS AND MEASURES.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Each State board receiving funds under this
 Act shall develop and implement a statewide system of core standards
 and measures of performance for secondary and postsecondary vocational
 education programs. Each State board receiving funds under this Act, before
 the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment
 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 Amendments of 1990, shall appoint the State Committee of Practitioners
 (in this section referred to as the `Committee')  as prescribed by section
 512(a) after consulting with local school officials representing eligible
 recipients, and representatives of organized labor, business, superintendents,
 community-based organizations, private industry councils established under
 section 102(a) of the Job Training Partnership Act, State councils, parents,
 special populations, correctional institutions, the administrator appointed
 under section 111(b)(1), the State administrator of programs assisted under
 part B of the Education of the Handicapped Act, the State administrator
 of programs assisted under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act, the State administrator of programs for students
 of limited English proficiency, and guidance counselors. Such system shall
 be developed and implemented before the end of the 2-year period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied
 Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990 and shall apply to all programs
 assisted under this Act. Eligible recipients may make local modifications to
 such system based on economic, geographic, or demographic factors, or the
 characteristics of the population to be served. Such modifications shall
 conform to the assessment criteria contained in the State plan. The State
 board shall convene the Committee on a regular basis to review, comment
 on, and propose revisions to a draft State proposal, which the State board
 shall develop, for a system of core standards and measures of performance
 for vocational programs.
 `(b) REQUIREMENTS- Each system developed under subsection (a) shall include--
 `(1) measures of learning and competency gains, including student progress
 in the achievement of basic and more advanced academic skills;
 `(2) 1 or more measures of performance, which shall include only--
 `(A) competency attainment;
 `(B) job or work skill attainment or enhancement including student progress
 in achieving occupational skills necessary to obtain employment in the field
 for which the student has been prepared, including occupational skills in
 the industry the student is preparing to enter;
 `(C) retention in school or completion of secondary school or its equivalent;
 and
 `(D) placement into additional training or education, military service,
 or employment;
 `(3) incentives or adjustments that are--
 `(A) designed to encourage service to targeted groups or special populations;
 and
 `(B) for each student, consistent with the student's individualized education
 program developed under section 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped
 Act, where appropriate; and
 `(4) procedures for using existing resources and methods developed in other
 programs receiving Federal assistance.
 `(c) CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER PROGRAMS- In developing the standards and
 measures included in a system developed under subsection (a), the State
 board shall take into consideration--
 `(1) standards and measures developed under job opportunities and basic
 skills training programs established and operated under a plan approved by
 the Secretary of Health and Human Services that meets the requirements of
 section 402(a)(19) of the Social Security Act; and
 `(2) standards prescribed by the Secretary of Labor under section 106 of
 the Job Training Partnership Act.
 `(d) INFORMATION PROVIDED BY STATE BOARD- (1) The Committee shall make
 recommendations to the State board with respect to modifying standards and
 measures to be used under this section, based on the information provided
 under paragraph (2).
 `(2) To assist the Committee in formulating recommendations under paragraph
 (1), the State board shall provide to the Committee information concerning
 differing types of standards and measurement, including--
 `(A) the advantages and disadvantages of each type of standard or measurement;
 `(B) instances in which such standards and measures have been effective; and
 `(C) instances in which such standards and measures have not been effective.
 `(3) In the event that the State board does not accept the Committee's
 recommendations made as required by paragraph (1), the State board shall set
 forth in the State plan its reasons for not accepting such recommendations.
 `(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary shall provide technical assistance
 to the States with respect to the development of systems under subsection
 (a). In providing such assistance, the Secretary shall utilize existing
 resources in other Federal agencies.
 `(f) REPORT- The Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate committees
 of the Congress not later than the expiration of the 4-year period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied
 Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990. Such report shall include--
 `(1) a detailed description of the status of each State's system of standards
 and measures developed as required by this section;
 `(2) an assessment of the validity, predictiveness, and reliability of such
 standards and measures, unbiased to special populations, in the areas of
 academic achievement, vocational skill competencies, employment outcomes,
 and postsecondary continuation and attainment; and
 `(3) an evaluation of the comparability of State-developed performance
 standards across States to establish a core of common indicators.'.
SEC. 116. STATE ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION.
 Part B of title I of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2321 et seq.) is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
`SEC. 116. STATE ASSESSMENT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each State board receiving assistance under this Act shall
 conduct an assessment using measurable objective criteria developed by the
 State board to assess program quality. Such criteria shall be developed in
 consultation with representatives of the groups described in section 115(a)
 and shall use information gathered by the National Occupational Information
 Coordinating Committee and, if appropriate, other information. Each State
 board shall widely disseminate such criteria. State boards shall develop
 such criteria no later than the beginning of the 1991-1992 school year. Such
 criteria shall include such factors as--
 `(1) integration of academic and vocational education;
 `(2) sequential course of study leading to both academic and occupational
 competencies;
 `(3) increased student work skill attainment and job placement;
 `(4) increased linkages between secondary and postsecondary educational
 institutions;
 `(5) instruction and experience, to the extent practicable, in all aspects
 of the industry the students are preparing to enter;
 `(6) the ability of the eligible recipients to meet the needs of special
 populations with respect to vocational education;
 `(7) raising the quality of vocational education programs in schools with
 high concentrations of poor and low-achieving students;
 `(8) the relevance of programs to the workplace and to the occupations for
 which students are to be trained, and the extent to which such programs
 reflect a realistic assessment of current and future labor market needs,
 including needs in areas of emerging technologies;
 `(9) the ability of the vocational curriculum, equipment, and instructional
 materials to meet the demands of the workforce;
 `(10) basic and higher order current and future workplace competencies
 which will reflect the hiring needs of employers; and
 `(11) other factors considered appropriate by the State board.
 `(b) DEADLINE FOR ASSESSMENT- Each State board shall complete the assessment
 required by subsection (a) before the expiration of the 6-month period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational
 and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990.
`SEC. 117. PROGRAM EVALUATION AND IMPROVEMENT.
 `(a) ANNUAL EVALUATION- Each recipient of financial assistance under part
 C of title II shall annually evaluate the effectiveness of the program
 conducted with assistance under this Act based on the standards and measures
 (or modifications thereto) developed as required by section 115. As part
 of each such evaluation, each such recipient shall--
 `(1) review programs, with the full and informed participation of
 representatives of individuals who are members of special populations, to--
 `(A) identify and adopt strategies to overcome any barriers which are
 resulting in lower rates of access to vocational education programs or success
 in such programs for individuals who are members of special populations; and
 `(B) evaluate the progress of individuals who are members of special
 populations in vocational education programs assisted under this Act; and
 `(2) evaluate the progress of vocational education programs assisted under
 this Act in providing vocational education students with strong experience in
 and understanding of all aspects of the industry the students are preparing
 to enter.
 `(b) LOCAL PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT PLAN- Beginning not less than 1 year after the
 implementation of the provisions of section 115, if any recipient described
 in subsection (a) determines that the recipient is not making substantial
 progress in meeting the standards and measures developed as required by
 section 115, such recipient shall develop a plan, in consultation with
 teachers, parents, and students concerned, for program improvement for the
 succeeding school year. Such plan shall describe how the recipient will
 identify and modify programs funded under part C of title II, including--
 `(1) a description of vocational education and career development strategies
 designed to achieve progress in improving the effectiveness of the program
 conducted with assistance under this Act; and
 `(2) if necessary, a description of strategies designed to improve
 supplementary services provided to individuals who are members of special
 populations.
 `(c) STATE AND LOCAL JOINT PLAN- If, after 1 year of implementation of
 the plan described in subsection (b), sufficient progress in meeting the
 standards and measures developed as required by section 115 has not been
 made, the State shall work jointly with the recipient and teachers, parents,
 and students concerned to develop a plan for program improvement. Each such
 plan shall contain--
 `(1) a description of the technical assistance and program activities the
 State will provide to enhance the performance of the eligible recipient;
 `(2) a reasonable timetable to improve the school performance under the plan;
 `(3) a description of vocational education strategies designed to improve
 the performance of the program as measured by the evaluation; and
 `(4) if necessary, a description of strategies designed to improve
 supplementary services provided to individuals who are members of special
 populations.
 `(d) FURTHER ACTION- The State shall, in conjunction with the eligible
 recipient, annually review and revise the joint plan developed under
 subsection (c) in order to improve performance and will continue to do so
 each consecutive year until the recipient sustains, for more than 1 year,
 fulfillment of the State and local standards and measures developed under
 section 115.
`SEC. 118. CRITERIA FOR SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
MEMBERS OF SPECIAL POPULATIONS.
 `(a) ASSURANCES OF EQUAL ACCESS FOR MEMBERS OF SPECIAL POPULATIONS- The
 State board, in its State plan, shall provide assurances that--
 `(1) individuals who are members of special populations will be provided
 with equal access to recruitment, enrollment, and placement activities;
 `(2) individuals who are members of special populations will be provided
 with equal access to the full range of vocational education programs
 available to individuals who are not members of special populations,
 including occupationally specific courses of study, cooperative education,
 apprenticeship programs, and, to the extent practicable, comprehensive
 career guidance and counseling services, and shall not be discriminated
 against on the basis of their status as members of special populations;
 `(3)(A) vocational education programs and activities for individuals with
 handicaps will be provided in the least restrictive environment in accordance
 with section 612(5)(B) of the Education of the Handicapped Act and will,
 whenever appropriate, be included as a component of the individualized
 education program developed under section 614(a)(5) of such Act;
 `(B) students with handicaps who have individualized education programs
 developed under section 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped
 Act shall, with respect to vocational education programs, be afforded the
 rights and protections guaranteed such students under sections 612, 614,
 and 615 of such Act;
 `(C) students with handicaps who do not have individualized education
 programs developed under section 614(a)(5) of the Education of the
 Handicapped Act or who are not eligible to have such a program shall,
 with respect to vocational education programs, be afforded the rights and
 protections guaranteed such students under section 504 of the Rehabilitation
 Act of 1973 and, for the purpose of this Act, such rights and protections
 shall include making vocational education programs readily accessible to
 eligible individuals with disabilities through the provision of services
 described in subsection (c)(3);
 `(D) vocational education planning for individuals with handicaps will be
 coordinated between appropriate representatives of vocational education,
 special education, and State vocational rehabilitation agencies; and
 `(E) the provision of vocational education to each student with handicaps
 will be monitored to determine if such education is consistent with the
 individualized education program developed for such student under section
 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped Act, in any case in which
 such a program exists;
 `(4) the provision of vocational education will be monitored to ensure
 that disadvantaged students and students of limited English proficiency
 have access to such education in the most integrated setting possible; and
 `(5)(A) the requirements of this Act relating to individuals who are members
 of special populations--
 `(i) will be carried out under the general supervision of individuals in
 the appropriate State educational agency or State board who are responsible
 for students who are members of special populations; and
 `(ii) will meet education standards of the State educational agency or
 State board; and
 `(B) with respect to students with handicaps, the supervision carried
 out under subparagraph (A) shall be carried out consistent with and in
 conjunction with supervision by the State educational agency or State board
 carried out under section 612(6) of the Education of the Handicapped Act.
 `(b) PROVISION OF INFORMATION- (1) Each local educational agency shall
 provide to students who are members of special populations and parents
 of such students at least 1 year before the students enter or are of an
 appropriate age for the grade level in which vocational education programs
 are first generally available in the State, but in no event later than the
 beginning of the ninth grade, information concerning--
 `(A) the opportunities available in vocational education;
 `(B) the requirements for eligibility for enrollment in such vocational
 education programs;
 `(C) specific courses that are available;
 `(D) special services that are available;
 `(E) employment opportunities; and
 `(F) placement.
 `(2) Each eligible institution that receives assistance under title II shall
 provide the information described in paragraph (1) to each individual who
 requests information concerning or seeks admission to vocational education
 programs offered by the institution, and, when appropriate, assist in the
 preparation of applications relating to such admission.
 `(3) The information provided under this subsection shall, to the extent
 practicable, be in a language and form that the parents and students
 understand.
 `(c) ASSURANCES- Each eligible recipient that receives assistance under
 title II shall provide assurances that such eligible recipient shall--
 `(1) assist students who are members of special populations to enter
 vocational education programs, and, with respect to students with handicaps,
 assist in fulfilling the transitional service requirements of section 626
 of the Education of the Handicapped Act;
 `(2) assess the special needs of students participating in programs receiving
 assistance under title II with respect to their successful completion of
 the vocational education program in the most integrated setting possible;
 `(3) provide supplementary services to students who are members of special
 populations, including, with respect to individuals with handicaps--
 `(A) curriculum modification;
 `(B) equipment modification;
 `(C) classroom modification;
 `(D) supportive personnel; and
 `(E) instructional aids and devices;
 `(4) provide guidance, counseling, and career development activities conducted
 by professionally trained counselors and teachers who are associated with
 the provision of such special services; and
 `(5) provide counseling and instructional services designed to facilitate
 the transition from school to post-school employment and career opportunities.
 `(d) PARTICIPATORY PLANNING- The State board shall--
 `(1) establish effective procedures, including an expedited appeals procedure,
 by which parents, students, teachers, and area residents concerned will be
 able to directly participate in State and local decisions that influence
 the character of programs under this Act affecting their interests; and
 `(2) provide technical assistance and design such procedures to ensure
 that such individuals are given access to the information needed to use
 such procedures.'.
TITLE II--BASIC STATE GRANTS
SEC. 201. BASIC STATE GRANTS.
 Title II of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`TITLE II--BASIC STATE GRANTS FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
`PART A--STATE PROGRAMS
`SEC. 201. STATE PROGRAMS AND STATE LEADERSHIP.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- From amounts reserved under section 102(a)(3),
 each State shall conduct State programs and State leadership activities.
 `(b) REQUIRED USES OF FUNDS- The programs and activities described in
 subsection (a) shall include--
 `(1) professional development activities for vocational teachers and academic
 teachers working with vocational education students, including corrections
 educators and counselors, and educators and counselors in community-based
 organizations, including inservice and preservice training of teachers
 in state-of-the-art programs and techniques, including integration of
 vocational and academic curricula, with particular emphasis on inservice
 and preservice training of minority teachers;
 `(2) development, dissemination, and field testing of curricula, especially--
 `(A) curricula that integrate vocational and academic methodologies; and
 `(B) curricula that provide a coherent sequence of courses through which
 academic and occupational skills may be measured; and
 `(3) assessment of programs conducted with assistance under this Act,
 including the development of--
 `(A) performance standards and measures for such programs; and
 `(B) program improvement and accountability with respect to such programs.
 `(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- The programs and activities described in
 subsection (a) may include--
 `(1) the promotion of partnerships among business, education (including
 educational agencies), industry, labor, community-based organizations,
 or governmental agencies;
 `(2) the support for tech-prep education as described in section 344;
 `(3) the support of vocational student organizations, especially with
 respect to efforts to increase minority participation in such organizations;
 `(4) leadership and instructional programs in technology education; and
 `(5) data collection.
`PART B--OTHER STATE-ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
`Subpart 1--Programs to Provide Single Parents, Displaced Homemakers, and
Single Pregnant Women With Marketable Skills and to Promote the Elimination
of Sex Bias
`SEC. 221. PROGRAMS FOR SINGLE PARENTS, DISPLACED HOMEMAKERS, AND SINGLE
PREGNANT WOMEN.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Each State shall use the amount reserved under
 section 102(a)(2)(A) only to--
 `(1) provide, subsidize, reimburse, or pay for preparatory services, including
 instruction in basic academic and occupational skills, necessary educational
 materials, and career guidance and counseling services, in preparation
 for vocational education and training that will furnish single parents,
 displaced homemakers, and single pregnant women with marketable skills;
 `(2) make grants to eligible recipients for expanding preparatory services
 and vocational education services when the expansion directly increases
 the eligible recipients' capacity for providing single parents, displaced
 homemakers, and single pregnant women with marketable skills;
 `(3) make grants to community-based organizations for the provision of
 preparatory and vocational education services to single parents, displaced
 homemakers, and single pregnant women if the State determines that the
 community-based organization has demonstrated effectiveness in providing
 comparable or related services to single parents, displaced homemakers,
 and single pregnant women, taking into account the demonstrated performance
 of such an organization in terms of cost, the quality of training, and the
 characteristics of the participants;
 `(4) make preparatory services and vocational education and training more
 accessible to single parents, displaced homemakers, and single pregnant women
 by assisting such individuals with dependent care, transportation services,
 or special services and supplies, books, and materials, or by organizing
 and scheduling the programs so that such programs are more accessible; or
 `(5) provide information to single parents, displaced homemakers, and single
 pregnant women to inform such individuals of vocational education programs,
 related support services, and career counseling.
 `(b) SETTINGS- The programs and services described in subsection (a)
 may be provided in postsecondary or secondary school settings, including
 area vocational education schools, that serve single parents, displaced
 homemakers, and single pregnant women.
`SEC. 222. SEX EQUITY PROGRAMS.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Except as provided in subsection (b), each State
 shall use the amount reserved under section 102(a)(2)(B) only for--
 `(1) programs, services, comprehensive career guidance and counseling,
 and activities to eliminate sex bias and stereotyping in secondary and
 postsecondary vocational education;
 `(2) preparatory services and vocational education programs, services,
 and activities for girls and women, aged 14 through 25, designed to enable
 the participants to support themselves and their families; and
 `(3) support services for individuals participating in vocational education
 programs, services, and activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2),
 including dependent-care services and transportation.
 `(b) WAIVER OF AGE LIMIT- The administrator appointed under section 111(b)(1)
 may waive the requirement with respect to age limitations contained in
 subsection (a)(2) whenever the administrator determines that the waiver is
 essential to meet the objectives of this section.
`SEC. 223. COMPETITIVE AWARD OF AMOUNTS; EVALUATION OF PROGRAMS.
 `The administrator appointed under section 111(b)(1)--
 `(1) shall, on a competitive basis, allocate and distribute to eligible
 recipients or community-based organizations the amounts reserved under
 section 102(a)(2) for carrying out this subpart, ensuring that each grant
 made under this subpart is for a program that is of sufficient size, scope,
 and quality to be effective; and
 `(2) shall develop procedures for the collection from eligible recipients,
 including community-based organizations, that receive funds under this subpart
 of data appropriate to the individuals served in order to permit evaluation
 of the effectiveness of such programs as required by section 111(b)(1)(L).
`Subpart 2--Corrections Education
`SEC. 225. PROGRAMS FOR CRIMINAL OFFENDERS.
 `(a) DESIGNATION OF STATE CORRECTIONS EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- (1) Each State board
 shall designate 1 or more State corrections agencies as State corrections
 educational agencies to administer vocational education programs assisted
 under this Act for juvenile and adult criminal offenders in correctional
 institutions in the State, including correctional institutions operated by
 local authorities.
 `(2) Any corrections agency that desires to be designated under paragraph
 (1) shall submit to the State board a plan for the use of funds provided
 to such corrections agency from the amounts reserved by the State under
 section 102(a)(5).
 `(b) DUTIES OF STATE CORRECTIONS EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- In administering
 programs receiving funds under this section, each State corrections
 educational agency designated under subsection (a) shall, in carrying out
 a vocational education program for criminal offenders--
 `(1) give special consideration to--
 `(A) providing services to offenders who are completing their sentences
 and preparing for release; and
 `(B) providing grants for the establishment of vocational education programs
 in correctional institutions that do not have such programs;
 `(2) provide vocational education programs for women who are incarcerated;
 `(3) improve equipment; and
 `(4) in cooperation with eligible recipients, administer and coordinate
 vocational education services to offenders before and after their release.
`PART C--SECONDARY, POSTSECONDARY, AND ADULT VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS
`Subpart 1--Within-State Allocation
`SEC. 231. DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS TO SECONDARY SCHOOL PROGRAMS.
 `(a) GENERAL RULE- Except as otherwise provided in this section and section
 233, each State shall distribute funds available in any fiscal year for
 secondary school vocational education programs to local educational agencies
 within the State as follows:
 `(1) From 70 percent of such funds, each local educational agency shall be
 allocated an amount that bears the same relationship to such 70 percent
 as the amount such local educational agency was allocated under section
 1005 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in the preceding
 fiscal year bears to the total amount received under such section by local
 educational agencies in the State in such year.
 `(2) From 20 percent of such funds, each local educational agency shall be
 allocated an amount that bears the same relationship to such 20 percent as
 the number of students with handicaps who have individualized education
 programs under section 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped Act
 served by such local educational agency in the preceding fiscal year bears
 to the total number of such students served by local educational agencies
 in the State in such year.
 `(3) From 10 percent of such funds, each local educational agency shall be
 allocated an amount that bears the same relationship to such 10 percent as
 the number of students enrolled in schools and adults enrolled in training
 programs under the jurisdiction of such local educational agency in the
 preceding fiscal year bears to the number of students enrolled in schools
 and adults enrolled in training programs under the jurisdiction of all
 local educational agencies in the State in such year.
 `(b) MINIMUM GRANT AMOUNT- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), no
 local educational agency shall be eligible for a grant under this part
 unless the amount allocated to such agency under subsection (a) is not less
 than $15,000. A local educational agency may enter into a consortium with
 other local educational agencies for purposes of meeting the minimum grant
 requirement of this paragraph.
 `(2) The State may waive the application of paragraph (1) in any case in
 which the local educational agency--
 `(A) is located in a rural, sparsely-populated area; and
 `(B) demonstrates that the agency is unable to enter into a consortium for
 purposes of providing services under this part.
 `(3) Any amounts which are not allocated by reason of paragraph (1) or
 paragraph (2) shall be redistributed to local educational agencies that
 meet the requirements of paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) in accordance with
 the provisions of this section.
 `(c) LIMITED JURISDICTION AGENCIES- (1) In applying the provisions of
 subsection (a), no State board receiving assistance under this Act shall
 allocate funds to a local educational agency that serves only elementary
 schools, but shall distribute such funds to the local or regional educational
 agency which provides secondary school services to secondary school students
 in the same attendance area.
 `(2) The amount to be allocated under paragraph (1) to a local educational
 agency that has jurisdiction only over secondary schools shall be determined
 based on the number of students that entered such secondary schools in the
 previous year from the elementary schools involved.
 `(d) ALLOCATIONS TO AREA VOCATIONAL EDUCATION SCHOOLS AND INTERMEDIATE
 EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES- (1) The State shall distribute funds available for
 secondary school vocational education programs to the appropriate area
 vocational education school or intermediate educational agency in any case
 in which--
 `(A) the area vocational education school or intermediate educational agency
 and the local educational agency concerned--
 `(i) have formed or will form a consortium for the purpose of receiving
 funds under this section; or
 `(ii) have entered into or will enter into a cooperative arrangement for
 such purpose; and
 `(B)(i) the area vocational education school or intermediate educational
 agency serves an approximately equal or greater proportion of students with
 handicaps and students who are economically disadvantaged than the proportion
 of such students attending the secondary schools under the jurisdiction of
 all of the local educational agencies sending students to the area vocational
 education school or the intermediate educational agency; or
 `(ii) the area vocational education school, intermediate educational agency,
 or local educational agency demonstrates that it is unable to meet the
 criterion described in clause (i) due to the lack of interest by students
 described in clause (i) in attending vocational education programs in that
 area school or intermediate educational agency.
 `(2) If an area vocational education school or intermediate educational
 agency meets the requirements of paragraph (1), then--
 `(A) the amount that would otherwise be distributed to the local educational
 agency shall be allocated to the area vocational education school, the
 intermediate educational agency, and the local educational agency based on
 each school's or entity's relative share of students described in paragraph
 (1)(B)(i) who are attending vocational education programs that meet the
 requirements of section 235 (based, if practicable, on the average enrollment
 for the prior 3 years); or
 `(B) such amount may be allocated on the basis of an agreement between
 the local educational agency and the area vocational education school or
 intermediate educational agency.
 `(3)(A) For the purposes of this subsection, the State may determine the
 number of economically disadvantaged students attending vocational education
 programs on the basis of eligibility for any of the following:
 `(i) Free or reduced-price meals under the National School Lunch Act.
 `(ii) The program for aid to dependent children under part A of title IV
 of the Social Security Act.
 `(iii) Benefits under the Food Stamp Act of 1977.
 `(iv) Services under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965.
 `(v) Other indices of economic status including estimates of such indices,
 if the State demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such
 indices are more representative of such number.
 `(B) If a State elects to use more than 1 factor described in subparagraph
 (A) for purposes of making the determination described in such subparagraph,
 the State shall ensure that the data used is not duplicative.
 `(4) The State board shall establish an appeals procedure for resolution of
 any dispute arising between a local educational agency and an area vocational
 education school or an intermediate educational agency with respect to the
 allocation procedures described in this section, including the decision of
 a local educational agency to leave a consortium.
 `(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4)
 any local educational agency receiving an allocation which is not sufficient
 to conduct a program which meets the requirements of section 235(c) is
 encouraged to--
 `(A) form a consortium or enter into a cooperative agreement with an area
 vocational education school or intermediate educational agency offering
 programs that meet the requirements of section 235(c) and that are accessible
 to economically disadvantaged students and students with handicaps served
 by such local educational agency; and
 `(B) transfer such allocation to the area vocational education school or
 intermediate educational agency.
`SEC. 232. DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS TO POSTSECONDARY AND ADULT PROGRAMS.
 `(a) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in subsection (b) and section 233, each
 State shall distribute funds available in any fiscal year for postsecondary
 and adult vocational education programs to eligible institutions within the
 State. Each such eligible institution shall receive an amount that bears the
 same relationship to the amount of funds available under such section as the
 number of Pell Grant recipients and recipients of assistance from the Bureau
 of Indian Affairs enrolled in programs meeting the requirements of section 235
 offered by such institution in the preceding fiscal year bears to the number
 of such recipients enrolled in such programs within the State in such year.
 `(b) WAIVER FOR MORE EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION- The Secretary may waive the
 application of subsection (a) in the case of any State that submits to the
 Secretary an application for such a waiver that--
 `(1) demonstrates that the formula described in subsection (a) does not
 result in a distribution of funds to the institutions within the State that
 have the highest numbers of economically disadvantaged individuals and that
 an alternative formula would result in such a distribution; and
 `(2) includes a proposal for an alternative formula that may include criteria
 relating to the number of individuals attending institutions within the
 State who--
 `(A) receive need-based postsecondary financial aid provided from public
 funds;
 `(B) are members of families participating in the program for aid to families
 with dependent children under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act;
 `(C) are enrolled in postsecondary educational institutions that--
 `(i) are funded by the State;
 `(ii) do not charge tuition; and
 `(iii) serve only economically disadvantaged students;
 `(D) are enrolled in programs serving economically disadvantaged adults;
 `(E) are participants in programs assisted under the Job Training Partnership
 Act; or
 `(F) are recipients of Pell Grants.
 `(c) MINIMUM GRANT AMOUNT- (1) No grant provided to any institution under
 this section shall be for an amount that is less than $50,000.
 `(2) Any amounts which are not allocated by reason of paragraph (1) shall
 be redistributed to eligible institutions in accordance with the provisions
 of this section.
 `(d) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this section--
 `(1) the term `eligible institution' means an institution of higher education,
 a local educational agency serving adults, or an area vocational education
 school serving adults that offers or will offer a program that meets the
 requirements of section 235 and seeks to receive assistance under this part;
 `(2) the term `institution of higher education' has the meaning given that
 term in section 435(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965; and
 `(3) the term `Pell Grant recipient' means a recipient of financial aid
 under subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
`SEC. 233. SPECIAL RULE FOR MINIMAL ALLOCATION.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- In any fiscal year in which a minimal amount is made
 available by a State for distribution under section 231 or section 232 such
 State may, notwithstanding the provisions of section 231 or section 232, as
 appropriate, in order to result in a more equitable distribution of funds
 for programs serving the highest numbers of economically disadvantaged
 individuals, distribute such minimal amount--
 `(1) on a competitive basis; or
 `(2) through any alternative method determined by the State.
 `(b) MINIMAL AMOUNT- For purposes of this section, the term `minimal amount'
 means not more than 15 percent of the total amount made available for
 distribution under this part.
`SEC. 234. REALLOCATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In any academic year that a local educational agency or
 eligible institution does not expend all of the amounts it is allocated for
 such year under section 231 or section 232, such local educational agency
 or eligible institution shall return any unexpended amounts to the State
 to be reallocated under section 231 or section 232, as appropriate.
 `(b) REALLOCATION OF AMOUNTS RETURNED LATE IN AN ACADEMIC YEAR- In any
 academic year in which amounts are returned to the State under sections 231
 or 232 and the State is unable to reallocate such amounts according to such
 sections in time for such amounts to be expended in such academic year,
 the State shall retain such amounts to be distributed in combination with
 amounts provided under this title for the following academic year.
`Subpart 2--Uses of Funds
`SEC. 235. USES OF FUNDS.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Each eligible recipient that receives a grant under
 this part shall use funds provided under such grant to improve vocational
 education programs, with the full participation of individuals who are
 members of special populations, at a limited number of sites or with respect
 to a limited number of program areas.
 `(b) PRIORITY- Each eligible recipient that receives a grant under this part
 shall give priority for assistance under this part to sites or programs
 that serve the highest concentrations of individuals who are members of
 special populations.
 `(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR USES OF FUNDS- (1) Funds made available under a
 grant under this part shall be used to provide vocational education in
 programs that--
 `(A) are of such size, scope, and quality as to be effective;
 `(B) integrate academic and vocational education in such programs through
 coherent sequences of courses so that students achieve both academic and
 occupational competencies; and
 `(C) provide equitable participation in such programs for the special
 populations consistent with the assurances and requirements in section 118.
 `(2) In carrying out the provisions of paragraph (1), grant funds may be
 used for activities such as--
 `(A) upgrading of curriculum;
 `(B) purchase of equipment, including instructional aids;
 `(C) inservice training of both vocational instructors and academic
 instructors working with vocational education students for integrating
 academic and vocational education;
 `(D) guidance and counseling;
 `(E) remedial courses;
 `(F) adaptation of equipment;
 `(G) tech-prep education programs;
 `(H) supplementary services designed to meet the needs of special populations;
 `(I) a special populations coordinator paid in whole or in part from
 such funds who shall be a qualified counselor or teacher to ensure that
 individuals who are members of special populations are receiving adequate
 services and job skill training;
 `(J) apprenticeship programs;
 `(K) programs that are strongly tied to economic development efforts in
 the State;
 `(L) programs which train adults and students for all aspects of the
 occupation, in which job openings are projected or available;
 `(M) comprehensive mentor programs in institutions of higher education
 offering comprehensive programs in teacher preparation, which seek to fully
 use the skills and work experience of individuals currently or formerly
 employed in business and industry who are interested in becoming classroom
 instructors and to meet the need of vocational educators who wish to upgrade
 their teaching competencies;
 `(N) provision of education and training through arrangements with private
 vocational training institutions, private postsecondary educational
 institutions, employers, labor organizations, and joint labor-management
 apprenticeship programs whenever such institutions, employers, labor
 organizations, or programs can make a significant contribution to obtaining
 the objectives of the State plan and can provide substantially equivalent
 training at a lesser cost, or can provide equipment or services not available
 in public institutions.
 `(3) Equipment purchases pursuant to sections 231 and 232, when not being used
 to carry out the provisions of this Act, may be used for other instructional
 purposes if--
 `(A) the acquisition of the equipment was reasonable and necessary for
 the purpose of conducting a properly designed project or activity under
 this title;
 `(B) is used after regular school hours or on weekends; and
 `(C) such other use is--
 `(i) incidental to the use of that equipment under this title;
 `(ii) does not interfere with the use of that equipment under this title; and
 `(iii) does not add to the cost of using that equipment under this title.
 `(4) Each eligible recipient receiving funds under this part shall use no
 more than 5 percent of such funds for administrative costs.
`Subpart 3--Local Application
`SEC. 240. LOCAL APPLICATION.
 `Any eligible recipient desiring financial assistance under this part shall,
 according to requirements established by the State board, submit to the
 State board an application, covering the same period as the State plan,
 for the use of such assistance. The State board shall determine requirements
 for local applications, except that each such application shall--
 `(1) contain a description of the vocational education programs to be
 funded, including--
 `(A) the extent to which the program incorporates each of the elements
 described in section 235;
 `(B) how the eligible recipient will use the funds available under this
 part and from other resources to improve the program with regard to each
 use of funds described in section 235;
 `(2) contain a report on the number of individuals in each of the special
 populations;
 `(3) contain a description of how the needs of individuals who are members
 of special populations will be assessed and a description of the planned
 use of funds to meet such needs;
 `(4) describe how access to programs of good quality will be provided to
 students who are economically disadvantaged (including foster children),
 students with handicaps, and students of limited English proficiency through
 affirmative outreach and recruitment efforts;
 `(5) provide assurances that the programs funded under this part shall
 be carried out according to the criteria for programs for each special
 population;
 `(6) describe the program evaluation standards the applicant will use to
 measure its progress;
 `(7) describe methods to be used to coordinate vocational education services
 with relevant programs conducted under the Job Training Partnership Act,
 including cooperative arrangements established with private industry councils
 established under section 102(a) of such Act, in order to avoid duplication
 and to expand the range of and accessibility to vocational education services;
 `(8) describe methods used to develop vocational educational programs in
 consultation with parents and students of special populations;
 `(9) provide a description of coordination with community-based organizations;
 `(10) consider the demonstrated occupational needs of the area in assisting
 programs funded by this Act;
 `(11) provide a description of how the eligible recipient will provide a
 vocational education program that--
 `(A) integrates academic and occupational disciplines so that students
 participating in the program are able to achieve both academic and
 occupational competence; and
 `(B) offers coherent sequences of courses leading to a job skill;
 `(12) provide assurances that the eligible recipient will provide a vocational
 education program that--
 `(A) encourages students through counseling to pursue such coherent sequences
 of courses;
 `(B) assists students who are economically disadvantaged, students of
 limited English proficiency, and students with handicaps to succeed through
 supportive services such as counseling, English-language instruction,
 child care, and special aids;
 `(C) is of such size, scope, and quality as to bring about improvement in
 the quality of education offered by the school; and
 `(D) seeks to cooperate with the sex equity program carried out under
 section 222;
 `(13) provide an assurance that the eligible recipient will provide sufficient
 information to the State to enable the State to comply with the provisions
 of section 231(d); and
 `(14) describe how the eligible recipient will monitor the provision of
 vocational education to individuals who are members of special populations.'.
TITLE III--SPECIAL PROGRAMS
SEC. 301. USE OF FUNDS.
 Section 302(b) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2352(b)) is amended by--
 (1) redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8),
 respectively; and
 (2) inserting the following new paragraph (6) after paragraph (5):
 `(6) model programs for school dropouts;'.
SEC. 302. CONSUMER AND HOMEMAKING EDUCATION.
 Paragraph (2) of section 311 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2361) is amended by
 inserting `individual and family health,' after `food and nutrition,'.
SEC. 303. USE OF FUNDS FROM CONSUMER AND HOMEMAKING EDUCATION GRANTS.
 Section 312 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2362) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `in' and inserting `for residents of'; and
 (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting after `encourage' the following: `,
 in cooperation with the individual appointed under section 111(b)(1),';
 (2) in paragraph (1) of subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `managing home and work responsibilities' and inserting
 `balancing work and family';
 (B) by inserting after `family crises' the following: `(including family
 violence and child abuse)';
 (C) by inserting after `parenting skills' the following: `(especially among
 teenage parents), preventing teenage pregnancy';
 (D) by striking `handicapped individuals,' and inserting `individuals with
 handicaps, and members of at-risk populations (including the homeless),'; and
 (E) by striking `improving nutrition,' and inserting `improving individual,
 child, and family nutrition and wellness,'.
SEC. 304. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION AND LEADERSHIP.
 The second sentence of subsection (a) of section 313 of the Act (20
 U.S.C. 2363) is amended--
 (1) by inserting after `State leadership' the following: `and full time
 State administrators'; and
 (2) by inserting `educational' after `experience and'.
SEC. 305. ADULT TRAINING, RETRAINING, AND EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT.
 Part C of title III of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2371 et seq.) is repealed.
SEC. 306. COMPREHENSIVE CAREER GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING PROGRAMS.
 (a) REDESIGNATIONS- (1) Title III of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2351 et seq.) is
 amended by redesignating part D as part C.
 (2) Sections 331, 332, and 333 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2381, 2382, 2383)
 are redesignated as sections 321, 322, and 323, respectively.
 (b) AMENDMENT TO PART HEADING- The heading for part D of title III of the
 Act (as redesignated in subsection (a)(1)) is redesignated as the heading
 to part C.
 (c) USE OF FUNDS FROM CAREER GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING GRANTS- Section 322 of
 the Act (as redesignated by subsection (a)(2)) (20 U.S.C. 2382) is amended in
 paragraph (2) of subsection (b), by inserting after `equipment acquisition,'
 the following: `development of career information delivery systems,'.
SEC. 307. BUSINESS-LABOR-EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP FOR TRAINING.
 (a) REDESIGNATIONS- (1) Title III of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2351 et seq.) is
 amended by redesignating part E as part D.
 (2) Sections 341, 342, and 343 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2391, 2392, 2393)
 are redesignated as sections 331, 332, and 333, respectively.
 (b) AMENDMENT TO PART HEADING- The heading for part D of title III of the
 Act (as redesignated by subsection (a)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
`PART D--BUSINESS-LABOR-EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP FOR TRAINING'.
 (c) FINDINGS AND PURPOSE- Section 331 of the Act (as redesignated by
 subsection (a)(2)) (20 U.S.C. 2391) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 331. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 `The Congress finds that--
 `(1) there is a need to infuse resources into the schools for the purpose
 of improving the quality of vocational education; and
 `(2) there is a need to fulfill the needs of business for skilled employees
 who meet certain minimal standards in key occupational areas.'.
 (d) AUTHORIZATION OF GRANTS- Section 332 of the Act (as redesignated by
 subsection (a)(2)) (20 U.S.C. 2392) is amended--
 (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) From amounts authorized under section 3(d)(1)(D) that are made
 available for this part, the Secretary shall make grants to States to enable
 States to award grants to partnerships among--
 `(A) an area vocational education school, a State agency, a local educational
 agency, a secondary school funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, an
 institution of higher education, a State corrections educational agency or
 an adult learning center; and
 `(B) business, industry, labor organizations, or apprenticeship programs;
to carry out business-labor-education partnership training programs in
accordance with this part.
 `(2) The Secretary shall ensure an equitable geographic distribution of
 grants under this part.';
 (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
 `(b) Grants to any State under this part shall be used in accordance with
 State plans and shall provide incentives for the coordination of programs
 assisted with funds under this part with related efforts under part E and
 under the Job Training Partnership Act. Each such State plan shall contain
 assurances to the Secretary that--
 `(1) funds received under this part will be awarded on a competitive basis
 solely for vocational education programs, including programs--
 `(A) to provide apprenticeships and internships in industry;
 `(B) to provide new equipment;
 `(C) to provide teacher internships or teacher training;
 `(D) that bring representatives of business and organized labor into the
 classroom;
 `(E) to increase the access to, and quality of, programs for individuals
 who are members of special populations;
 `(F) to strengthen coordination between vocational education programs,
 and the labor and skill needs of business and industry;
 `(G) to address the economic development needs of the area served by the
 partnership;
 `(H) to provide training and career counseling that will enable workers to
 retain their jobs;
 `(I) to provide training and career counseling that will enable workers to
 upgrade their jobs; and
 `(J) that address the needs of new and emerging industries, particularly
 industries in high-technology fields.
 `(2) the State will give preference to partnerships that coordinate with
 local chambers of commerce (or the equivalent), local labor organizations,
 or local economic development plans;
 `(3) the State will give priority to programs offered by partnerships that
 provide job training in areas or skills where there are significant labor
 shortages;
 `(4) the State shall ensure an equitable distribution of assistance under
 this part between urban and rural areas;
 `(5) except as provided in paragraph (6), not less than 50 percent of the
 aggregate cost of programs and projects assisted under this part will be
 provided from non-Federal sources, and not less than 50 percent of such
 non-Federal share will be provided by businesses or labor organizations
 participating in the partnership; and
 `(6) in the event that the partnership includes a small business or labor
 organization, 40 percent of the aggregate cost of the programs and projects
 assisted under this part will be provided from non-Federal sources and
 not less than 50 percent of such non-Federal share will be provided by
 participating businesses or labor organizations.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) The Secretary shall prescribe policies for vocational education programs
 carried out with assistance under this part. Such policies shall include
 examples of allowable expenses for business-labor-education partnerships.'.
SEC. 308. TECH-PREP EDUCATION.
 Title III of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2351 et seq.) is amended by adding at the
 end the following new part:
`PART E--TECH-PREP EDUCATION
`SEC. 341. SHORT TITLE.
 `This part may be cited as the `Tech-Prep Education Act'.
`SEC. 342. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) rapid technological advances and global economic competition demand
 increased levels of skilled technical education preparation and readiness
 on the part of youths entering the workforce;
 `(2) effective strategies reaching beyond the boundaries of traditional
 schooling are necessary to provide early and sustained intervention by
 parents, teachers, and educational institutions in the lives of students;
 `(3) a combination of nontraditional school-to-work technical education
 programs, using state-of-the-art equipment and appropriate technologies,
 will reduce the dropout rate for high school students in the United States
 and will produce youths who are mature, responsible, and motivated to build
 good lives for themselves;
 `(4) the establishment of systematic technical education articulation
 agreements between secondary schools and postsecondary educational
 institutions is necessary for providing youths with skills in the liberal
 and practical arts and in basic academics, including literacy instruction in
 the English language, and with the intense technical preparation necessary
 for finding a position in a changing workplace;
 `(5) by the year 2000 an estimated 15,000,000 manufacturing jobs will require
 more advanced technical skills, and an equal number of service jobs will
 become obsolete;
 `(6) more than 50 percent of jobs that are developing will require skills
 greater than those provided by existing educational programs;
 `(7) dropout rates in urban schools are 50 percent or higher, and more than
 50 percent of all Hispanic youth drop out of high school; and
 `(8) employers in the United States pay an estimated $210,000,000,000 annually
 for formal and informal training, remediation, and lost productivity as a
 result of untrained and unprepared youth joining, or attempting to join,
 the workforce of the United States.
 `(b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this part--
 `(1) to provide planning and demonstration grants to consortia of local
 educational agencies and postsecondary educational institutions, for
 the development and operation of 4-year programs designed to provide
 a tech-prep education program leading to a 2-year associate degree or a
 2-year certificate; and
 `(2) to provide, in a systematic manner, strong, comprehensive links between
 secondary schools and postsecondary educational institutions.
`SEC. 343. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) DISCRETIONARY AMOUNTS- In any fiscal year in which the amount made
 available under section 3(d)(1)(E) to carry out the provisions of this part
 is equal to or less than $50,000,000, the Secretary, in accordance with
 the provisions of this part which are not inconsistent with this paragraph,
 shall award grants for tech-prep education programs to consortia of--
 `(1) local educational agencies, intermediate educational agencies or area
 vocational education schools serving secondary school students, or secondary
 schools funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
 `(2)(A) nonprofit institutions of higher education which offer a 2-year
 associate degree program, a 2-year certificate program, and which are
 qualified as institutions of higher education pursuant to section 481(a) of
 the Higher Education Act of 1965, including institutions receiving assistance
 under the Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance Act of 1978,
 or a 2-year apprenticeship program that follows secondary instruction,
 if such nonprofit institutions of higher education are not subject to a
 default management plan required by the Secretary; or
 `(B) proprietary institutions of higher education which offer a 2-year
 associate degree program and which are qualified as institutions of higher
 education pursuant to section 481(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
 if such proprietary institutions of higher education are not subject to a
 default management plan required by the Secretary.
 `(b) STATE GRANTS- (1) In any fiscal year for which the amount made available
 under section 3(d)(1)(E) to carry out the provisions of this part exceeds
 $50,000,000, the Secretary shall allot such amount to the States in accordance
 with the provisions of section 101(a)(2).
 `(2) From amounts made available to each State under paragraph (1), the
 State board, in accordance with the provisions of this part which are not
 inconsistent with this paragraph, shall award grants on a competitive basis
 or on the basis of a formula determined by the State board, for tech-prep
 education programs to consortia described in subsection (a)(1).
`SEC. 344. TECH-PREP EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Each grant recipient shall use amounts provided
 under the grant to develop and operate a 4-year tech-prep education program.
 `(b) CONTENTS OF PROGRAM- Any such program shall--
 `(1) be carried out under an articulation agreement between the participants
 in the consortium;
 `(2) consist of the 2 years of secondary school preceding graduation and 2
 years of higher education, or an apprenticeship program of at least 2 years
 following secondary instruction, with a common core of required proficiency
 in mathematics, science, communications, and technologies designed to lead
 to an associate degree or certificate in a specific career field;
 `(3) include the development of tech-prep education program curricula
 appropriate to the needs of the consortium participants;
 `(4) include in-service training for teachers that--
 `(A) is designed to train teachers to effectively implement tech-prep
 education curricula;
 `(B) provides for joint training for teachers from all participants in the
 consortium; and
 `(C) may provide such training in weekend, evening, and summer sessions,
 institutes or workshops;
 `(5) include training programs for counselors designed to enable counselors
 to more effectively--
 `(A) recruit students for tech-prep education programs;
 `(B) ensure that such students successfully complete such programs; and
 `(C) ensure that such students are placed in appropriate employment;
 `(6) provide equal access to the full range of technical preparation
 programs to individuals who are members of special populations, including
 the development of tech-prep education program services appropriate to the
 needs of such individuals; and
 `(7) provide for preparatory services which assist all participants in
 such programs.
 `(c) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- Each such program may--
 `(1) provide for the acquisition of tech-prep education program equipment; and
 `(2) as part of the program's planning activities, acquire technical
 assistance from State or local entities that have successfully designed,
 established and operated tech-prep programs.
`SEC. 345. APPLICATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each consortium that desires to receive a grant under
 this part shall submit an application to the Secretary or the State board,
 as appropriate, at such time and in such manner as the Secretary or the
 State board, as appropriate, shall prescribe.
 `(b) THREE-YEAR PLAN- Each application submitted under this section shall
 contain a 3-year plan for the development and implementation of activities
 under this part.
 `(c) APPROVAL- The Secretary or the State board, as appropriate, shall
 approve applications based on their potential to create an effective
 tech-prep education program as provided for in section 344.
 `(d) SPECIAL CONSIDERATION- The Secretary or the State board, as appropriate,
 shall give special consideration to applications which--
 `(1) provide for effective employment placement activities or transfer of
 students to 4-year baccalaureate degree programs;
 `(2) are developed in consultation with business, industry, and labor
 unions; and
 `(3) address effectively the issues of dropout prevention and re-entry
 and the needs of minority youths, youths of limited English proficiency,
 youths with handicaps, and disadvantaged youths.
 `(e) EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE- In making grants under this part,
 the Secretary shall ensure an equitable distribution of assistance among
 States and the Secretary or the State board, as appropriate, shall ensure
 an equitable distribution of assistance between urban and rural consortium
 participants.
 `(f) NOTICE- (1) In the case of grants to be made by the Secretary, each
 consortium that submits an application under this section shall provide
 notice of such submission and a copy of such application to the State
 educational agency and the State agency for higher education of the State
 in which the consortium is located.
 `(2) The Secretary shall notify the State educational agency, the State
 agency for higher education, and the State council on vocational education
 of any State each time a consortium located in such State is selected to
 receive a grant under this part.
`SEC. 346. REPORTS.
 `(a) REPORT TO THE SECRETARY- In the case of grants made by the Secretary,
 each grant recipient shall, with respect to assistance received under
 this part, submit to the Secretary such reports as may be required by
 the Secretary to ensure that such grant recipient is complying with the
 requirements of this part.
 `(b) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- After grant recipients who receive grants
 in the first year in which grants are made under this part complete their
 eligibility under the program, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress
 a report evaluating the effectiveness of the program under this part.
`SEC. 347. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this part:
 `(1) The term `articulation agreement' means a commitment to a program
 designed to provide students with a nonduplicative sequence of progressive
 achievement leading to competencies in a tech-prep education program.
 `(2) The term `community college'--
 `(A) has the meaning provided in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965 for an institution which provides not less than a 2-year program
 which is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree; and
 `(B) includes tribally controlled community colleges.
 `(3) The term `tech-prep education program' means a combined secondary and
 postsecondary program which--
 `(A) leads to an associate degree or 2-year certificate;
 `(B) provides technical preparation in at least 1 field of engineering
 technology, applied science, mechanical, industrial, or practical art or
 trade, or agriculture, health, or business;
 `(C) builds student competence in mathematics, science, and communications
 (including through applied academics) through a sequential course of
 study; and
 `(D) leads to placement in employment.
 `(4) The terms `institution of higher education' and `higher education'
 include institutions offering apprenticeship programs of at least 2 years
 beyond the completion of secondary school.'.
SEC. 309. SUPPLEMENTARY STATE GRANTS FOR FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AND OTHER
PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT ACTIVITIES.
 Title III of the Act (as amended by section 308 of this Act) (20 U.S.C. 2351
 et seq.) is further amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`PART F--SUPPLEMENTARY STATE GRANTS FOR FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AND OTHER
PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT ACTIVITIES
`SEC. 351. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this part to provide funding to local educational
 agencies in economically depressed areas for program improvement activities,
 especially the improvement of facilities and acquisition or leasing of
 equipment to be used to carry out vocational education programs that receive
 assistance under this Act.
`SEC. 352. ALLOTMENT TO STATES.
 `In each fiscal year, from any amounts appropriated for purposes of carrying
 out this part, the Secretary shall allot to each State an amount which
 bears the same ratio to such appropriated amounts as the aggregate amount
 allocated to counties in such State for such fiscal year under section 1006
 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 bears to the total
 amount appropriated for carrying out such section for such fiscal year.
`SEC. 353. ALLOCATION TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.
 `(a) DISTRIBUTION OF ALL GRANT AMOUNTS- In each fiscal year for which a
 State receives a grant under this part, the State shall distribute not less
 than 100 percent of the amounts made available under the grant to eligible
 local educational agencies as provided in subsection (b).
 `(b) GRANT AMOUNTS- In each fiscal year for which a State receives a grant
 under this part, each eligible local educational agency or consortium of such
 agencies in the State shall receive an amount under this part that bears the
 same relationship to the amount received by such local educational agency
 or agencies under section 1006 of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 bears to the aggregate amount received by local educational
 agencies in such State under such section in such fiscal year.
`SEC. 354. USES OF FUNDS.
 `Each local educational agency or consortium of such agencies that receives
 a grant under this part shall----
 `(1) give first priority to using funds provided under the grant for
 improving facilities and acquiring or leasing equipment for carrying out
 vocational education programs that receive assistance under this Act; and
 `(2) then may use any funds not required to carry out the provisions of
 paragraph (1) for other program improvement activities, such as curriculum
 development or teacher training.
`SEC. 355. STATE APPLICATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each State that desires to receive a grant under this part
 shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner,
 and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may
 reasonably require. Each such application shall--
 `(1) designate the sole State agency described in section 111(a)(1) as
 the State agency responsible for the administration and supervision of
 activities carried out with assistance under this part;
 `(2) provide for a process of consultation with the State council established
 under section 112;
 `(3) describes how funds will be allocated in a manner consistent with
 section 353;
 `(4) provide for an annual submission of data concerning the use of funds
 and students served with assistance under this part;
 `(5) provide that the State educational agency will keep such records and
 provide such information to the Secretary as may be required for purposes
 of financial audits and program evaluations; and
 `(6) contain assurances that the State will comply with the requirements
 of this part.
 `(b) PERIOD OF APPLICATION- An application submitted by the State under
 subsection (a) shall be for a period of not more than 3 years and shall be
 amended annually.
`SEC. 356. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.
 `Each local educational agency or consortium of such agencies that desires to
 receive a grant under this part shall submit to the State an application at
 such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information
 as the State may reasonably require.'.
SEC. 310. COMMUNITY EDUCATION EMPLOYMENT CENTERS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
LIGHTHOUSE SCHOOLS.
 Title III of the Act (as amended by sections 308 and 309 of this Act)
 is further amended by inserting at the end the following:
`PART G--COMMUNITY EDUCATION EMPLOYMENT CENTERS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
LIGHTHOUSE SCHOOLS
`Subpart 1--Community Education Employment Centers
`SEC. 361. SHORT TITLE.
 `This part may be cited as the `Community Education Employment Center Act
 of 1990'.
`SEC. 362. PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this part to establish and evaluate model high
 school community education employment centers to meet the education needs of
 low-income urban and rural youth by awarding grants to eligible recipients to
 enable such eligible recipients to establish community education employment
 centers to provide students with the education, skills, support services,
 and enrichment necessary to ensure--
 `(1) graduation from secondary school;
 `(2) successful transition from secondary schools to a broad range of
 postsecondary institutions; and
 `(3) employment, including military service.
`SEC. 363. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to eligible
 recipients having applications approved pursuant to section 369 to
 establish and operate not more than 10 community education employment
 centers nationwide.
 `(b) GRANT PERIOD- Grants awarded under this section may be for a period
 of 5 years.
`SEC. 364. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
 `Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part shall--
 `(1) operate a community education employment center on an extended year
 and extended day basis;
 `(2) establish a collegial working environment, with substantial opportunities
 for staff training and development and shared decisionmaking;
 `(3) maintain small class sizes, and to the extent possible, maintain an
 average class size of 15 students or less;
 `(4) have the option to organize community education and employment centers
 into 1 or more programs, specializing in different areas of study of
 particular interest and employment opportunities for the student population;
 `(5) offer a broad array of secondary school coursework, including, to the
 extent possible--
 `(A) English, mathematics, history, geography, biology, chemistry, physics,
 and computer science;
 `(B) opportunities for student participation in a wide range of
 extracurricular activities, including community service and exploration,
 sports, fine and performing arts and tutorial study sessions;
 `(C) a comprehensive vocational-technical education program developed through
 regular consultation with employer-labor panels with knowledge of relevant
 industries, and which offers skills in planning, management, finances,
 technical and production skills, underlying principles of technology,
 labor and community issues, economic development and health, safety, and
 environment issues;
 `(D) courses in health, nutrition, and parenting;
 `(6) offer students on-site opportunities for assistance with career
 planning and decisionmaking, employability, entrepreneurial abilities,
 interpersonal communication skills, and remedial studies;
 `(7) maintain an emphasis on the development of academic skills, regardless
 of student career objectives;
 `(8) provide technical assistance and training to staff from other schools
 and local education agencies within the State who wish to replicate community
 education employment center capabilities;
 `(9) seek to utilize community organizations to provide support for
 educational activities and services to parents and students; and
 `(10) offer school-to-work transition services.
`SEC. 365. SUPPORT SERVICES REQUIREMENTS.
 `Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part shall establish
 in each community education employment center a support system to coordinate
 services for students, including--
 `(1) a comprehensive program of confidential guidance counseling, providing--
 `(A) guidance for career and personal decisionmaking and postsecondary
 institution placement;
 `(B) mentoring and referral to appropriate social services; and
 `(C) an accessible counseling service to help parents to focus on the
 enhancement of student education;
 `(2) an on-site job service office to offer students--
 `(A) career guidance, development, and employment counseling, which provides
 information about a broad range of occupations and alternative career paths;
 `(B) labor market information, job development, career testing, and
 occupational placement services for part-time and summer employment,
 internships, cooperative programs, and part-time and full-time employment
 opportunities upon graduation; and
 `(C) assistance in arranging part-time employment, so long as such employment
 does not adversely affect academic performance;
 `(3) assistance in arranging a summer program of work, education, or
 enrichment sessions;
 `(4) to the extent possible, providing transportation to and from the
 community education employment center and part-time job sites; and
 `(5) access to day care services for children of participating students.
`SEC. 366. PARENTAL AND COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part
 shall employ a parent/community coordinator to provide for the active and
 informed participation of parents and appropriate community representatives
 in each community education employment center by--
 `(1) encouraging parents and students to make informed decisions in reviewing
 and selecting the choice of community education employment center programs
 for their children;
 `(2) conducting regular parent seminars to--
 `(A) inform parents about community education employment center operations;
 `(B) obtain parent input; and
 `(C) disseminate information on how parents can encourage student performance;
 `(3) providing the parents of each student with a regular opportunity to
 meet with counselors, teachers, and the student to discuss student progress,
 plans, and needs;
 `(4) providing a range of roles in which parents may work with students at
 home or as class assistants or volunteer coordinators;
 `(5) establishing an advisory Council of Advisors (in this part referred
 to as the `Council') consisting of 1 individual representing each of the
 following entities:
 `(A) the local educational agency;
 `(B) the State council on vocational education and the State agency
 responsible for secondary vocational education;
 `(C) the student body;
 `(D) the local teacher organization;
 `(E) guidance counselors;
 `(F) community-based organizations;
 `(G) parents; and
 `(H) the appropriate private industry council.
 `(b) FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL- The Council shall provide recommendations to,
 and work with, eligible recipients to--
 `(1) establish annual community education employment center priorities,
 programs, and procedures;
 `(2) establish student selection criteria to ensure that all students
 in the school district have an equal opportunity to attend the community
 education employment center and that participants will be representative
 of the secondary school population in the school district;
 `(3) promulgate a student code of conduct that shall be developed in
 consultation with the students and teachers;
 `(4) assist in the selection of the community education employment center
 principal, administrators, department chairpersons, and teachers;
 `(5) assist in the selection and application of assessment tools for
 continuous evaluation of student learning progress;
 `(6) make recommendations for the selection of curriculum textbooks,
 software, and other learning resources and equipment; and
 `(7) make recommendations regarding the coordination of activities assisted
 under this part with activities assisted under the Job Training Partnership
 Act and school to work transitions.
`SEC. 367. PROFESSIONAL STAFF.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part
 shall only employ professional staff who demonstrate the highest of academic,
 teaching, guidance, or administrative standards.
 `(b) TEACHERS- (1) Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part
 shall ensure that community education employment center teachers receive
 inservice training at least annually in techniques, procedures and policies
 relevant to the community education employment center.
 `(2) Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this part shall employ
 a sufficient number of full-time certified or licensed guidance and career
 counselors to assist, enhance and monitor student progress.
`SEC. 368. ELIGIBILITY.
 `An eligible recipient shall be eligible to receive a grant under this
 part if--
 `(1) the eligible recipient is located in or serves 1 or more local
 educational agencies that are eligible for assistance under section 1006
 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
 `(2) the eligible recipient demonstrates that it will serve a student
 population which is predominantly educationally and economically
 disadvantaged.
`SEC. 369. APPLICATION.
 `(a) APPLICATION REQUIRED- Each eligible recipient desiring to participate
 in the demonstration grant program authorized by this part shall prepare
 and submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and
 containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.
 `(b) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION- Each application submitted pursuant to
 subsection (a) shall--
 `(1) demonstrate that the area where the center is to be located has a high
 concentration of children from low-income families, relative to the county
 and State as a whole;
 `(2) describe the activities and services for which assistance is sought;
 `(3) provide assurances that the eligible recipient will comply with the
 provisions of sections 364, 365, 366, 367, and 368;
 `(4) contain assurances that the State and local educational agency will,
 in any fiscal year, at least supply the same fiscal effort per student with
 respect to the free provision of public education to community education
 employment center students as such local educational agency provides for
 students attending secondary schools in such local educational agency;
 `(5) utilize funding available from appropriate employment, training,
 and education programs in the State;
 `(6) contain assurances that the community education employment center
 will coordinate the operations of such center to help meet local economic
 needs; and
 `(7) provide such additional assurances as the Secretary may reasonably
 require.
`SEC. 370. EVALUATION AND REPORT.
 `(a) LOCAL EVALUATION- Each community education employment center shall
 submit annually to the Secretary a comprehensive and continuous evaluation
 of student learning progress, including--
 `(1) academic and vocational competencies;
 `(2) dropout rates;
 `(3) information concerning employment and earnings while the students are
 attending a community education employment center and upon the graduation
 of such students from such center;
 `(4) information concerning student attendance at postsecondary institutions
 or student enlistment into military service upon the graduation of such
 students from the community employment education center; and
 `(5) parental, student and community participation in the activities of
 the community employment education center.
 `(b) REPORT- The Secretary shall report to the Congress on the evaluations
 submitted pursuant to subsection (a) not later than October 1, 1995.
`SEC. 371. DEFINITIONS.
 `As used in this part--
 `(1) the term `eligible recipient' means a secondary school or an area
 vocational school; and
 `(2) the term `parent' includes a legal guardian or other person standing
 in loco parentis.
`Subpart 2--Vocational Education Lighthouse Schools
`SEC. 375. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION LIGHTHOUSE SCHOOLS.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 secondary schools and area vocational education schools to enable such
 schools to establish and operate vocational education lighthouse schools.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- Grants awarded under this section shall be used to
 establish vocational education lighthouse schools which--
 `(1) serve as a model vocational education program--
 `(A) to provide each student with knowledge of, and experience in, all
 aspects of the industry or enterprise the student is preparing to enter;
 `(B) to provide each student with basic and higher order skills and develop
 the student's problem solving abilities in a vocational setting;
 `(C) to offer exceptionally high quality programs for disadvantaged and
 minority students;
 `(D) to provide the special services and modifications necessary to help
 individual students successfully complete the program;
 `(E) which is planned, developed and implemented with the participation of
 staff, local employers and local community; and
 `(F) which offers a full range of programs, including comprehensive career
 guidance and counseling, for students who plan to seek employment upon
 graduation or who will enroll in a 2- or 4-year college;
 `(2) provide information and assistance to other grant recipients, vocational
 programs, vocational education personnel, parents, students, other educators,
 community members and community organizations throughout the State regarding--
 `(A) curriculum materials;
 `(B) curriculum development, especially the integration of vocational and
 academic education;
 `(C) inservice and preservice staff development, training, and assistance,
 through off-site activities and through a range of short-term and long-term
 opportunities to participate in activities at the demonstration site;
 `(D) opportunities to systematically observe the model program; and
 `(E) technical assistance and staff development, as appropriate;
 `(3) use funds received under this section, together with funds from
 non-Federal sources, to develop and implement model programs containing
 the elements described in paragraph (1);
 `(4) develop comprehensive linkages with other local schools, community
 colleges, 4-year colleges, private vocational schools, community-based
 organizations, labor unions, employers, and other business groups, as
 appropriate; and
 `(5) develop and disseminate model approaches--
 `(A) for meeting the education training needs and career counseling needs
 of minority students, disadvantaged students, students with handicaps,
 and students of limited English proficiency; and
 `(B) to reduce and eliminate sex bias and stereotyping.'.
SEC. 311. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIANS AND ALASKA NATIVES.
 Title III of the Act (as amended by sections 308, 309 and 310 of this Act) (20
 U.S.C. 2351) is further amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`PART H--TRIBALLY CONTROLLED POSTSECONDARY VOCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
`SEC. 381. SHORT TITLE.
 `This part may be cited as the `Tribally Controlled Vocational Institutions
 Support Act of 1990'.
`SEC. 382. PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this part to provide grants for the operation and
 improvement of tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions to
 ensure continued and expanded educational opportunities for Indian students,
 and to allow for the improvement and expansion of the physical resources
 of such institutions.
`SEC. 383. GRANTS AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall, subject to the availability of
 appropriations, make grants pursuant to this section to tribally controlled
 postsecondary vocational institutions to provide basic support for the
 education and training of Indian students.
 `(b) USE OF GRANTS- Amounts made available under grants made pursuant to
 this section may be used for--
 `(1) training costs;
 `(2) educational costs;
 `(3) equipment costs;
 `(4) administrative costs; and
 `(5) costs of operation and maintenance of the institution.
`SEC. 384. ELIGIBLE GRANT RECIPIENTS.
 `To be eligible for assistance under this part a tribally controlled
 postsecondary vocational institution shall--
 `(1) be governed by a board of directors or trustees, a majority of whom
 are Indians;
 `(2) demonstrate adherence to stated goals, a philosophy or a plan of
 operation which fosters individual Indian economic and self-sufficiency
 opportunity, including programs which are appropriate to stated tribal goals
 of developing individual entrepreneurships and self-sustaining economic
 infrastructures on reservations;
 `(3) have been in operation for at least 3 years;
 `(4) hold accreditation with or be a candidate for accreditation by a
 nationally recognized accrediting authority for postsecondary vocational
 education; and
 `(5) enroll the full-time equivalency of not less than 100 students, of
 whom a majority are Indians.
`SEC. 385. GRANTS TO TRIBALLY CONTROLLED POSTSECONDARY VOCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
 `(a) APPLICATIONS- Any tribally controlled postsecondary vocational
 institution that desires to receive a grant under this part shall submit an
 application to the Secretary. Such application shall include a description
 of recordkeeping procedures for the expenditure of funds received under
 this part which will allow the Secretary to audit and monitor programs.
 `(b) INITIAL GRANTS- In the first year for which amounts are appropriated
 to carry out this part, the number of grants issued shall be not less than 2.
 `(c) CONSULTATION- In making grants pursuant to this part, the Secretary
 shall, to the extent practicable, consult with the boards of trustees and
 the tribal governments chartering the institutions being considered.
 `(d) LIMITATION- Amounts made available under grants made pursuant to this
 part shall not be used in connection with religious worship or sectarian
 instruction.
`SEC. 386. AMOUNT OF GRANTS.
 `(a) ALLOWABLE EXPENSES- Except as provided in subsection (d), the Secretary
 shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, provide for each
 program year to each tribally controlled vocational institution having an
 application approved by the Secretary, an amount necessary to pay expenses
 associated with--
 `(1) the maintenance and operation of the program, including development
 costs, costs of basic and special instruction (including special programs
 for individuals with handicaps and academic instruction), materials,
 student costs, administrative expenses, boarding costs, transportation,
 student services, day care and family support programs for students and their
 families (including contributions to the costs of education for dependents);
 `(2) capital expenditures, including operations and maintenance and minor
 improvements and repair, physical plant maintenance costs; and
 `(3) costs associated with repair, upkeep, replacement, and upgrading of
 the instructional equipment.
 `(b) PAYMENTS- (1) For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall provide amounts
 to institutions that are approved for grants under section 385 in 2 payments.
 `(2)(A) The first payment shall be made before the end of the 30-day period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of an Act providing appropriations for
 such fiscal year for purposes of carrying out this part. Except as provided
 in subparagraph (B), such payment shall be in an amount that is equal to at
 least 50 percent of the amount determined to be required under subsection
 (a) for the preceding year.
 `(B) In the first year that an institution receives a grant under this part,
 the Secretary shall determine the amount of the first payment by estimating
 the costs described in subsection (a) based upon information submitted by
 the institution.
 `(3) Each institution that receives a grant under section 385 shall receive
 a final payment of amounts to which it is entitled based on its costs under
 subsection (a) not later than January 1 of the fiscal year in which the
 costs are incurred.
 `(c) ACCOUNTING- Each institution receiving payments under this part shall
 annually provide to the Secretary an accurate and detailed accounting of
 its operating and maintenance expenses and such other information concerning
 costs as the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(d) ADDITIONAL GRANTS AUTHORIZED- (1) After providing grants to all
 eligible institutions under subsection (a), the Secretary shall, from any
 amounts remaining--
 `(A) first allocate to institutions receiving their first grant under this
 part an amount equal to the training equipment costs necessary to implement
 training programs; and
 `(B) from any remaining funds, review training equipment needs at each
 institution receiving assistance under this part at the end of the 5-year
 period beginning on the first day of the first year for which the institution
 received a grant under this part, and provide allocations for other training
 equipment needs if it is demonstrated by the institution that its training
 equipment has become obsolete for its purposes, or that the development of
 other training programs is appropriate.
 `(2) For the purposes of carrying out this subsection, the Secretary may
 require from each institution the submission of such information relating
 to the feasibility of such training programs as is reasonable and practical.
`SEC. 387. EFFECT ON OTHER PROGRAMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as specifically provided in this Act, eligibility
 for assistance under this part shall not preclude any tribally controlled
 postsecondary vocational institution from receiving Federal financial
 assistance under any program authorized under the Higher Education Act of
 1965 or any other applicable program for the benefit of institutions of
 higher education or vocational education.
 `(b) PROHIBITION ON ALTERATION OF GRANT AMOUNT- The amount of any grant for
 which tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions are eligible
 under this part shall not be altered because of funds allocated to any such
 institution from funds appropriated under the Act of November 2, 1921.
 `(c) PROHIBITION ON CONTRACT DENIAL- No tribally controlled postsecondary
 vocational institution for which an Indian tribe has designated a portion
 of the funds appropriated for the tribe from funds appropriated under the
 Act of November 2, 1921, may be denied a contract for such portion under the
 Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (except as provided
 in that Act), or denied appropriate contract support to administer such
 portion of the appropriated funds.
`SEC. 388. GRANT ADJUSTMENTS.
 `(a) ALLOCATION- (1) If the sums appropriated for any fiscal year for grants
 under this part are not sufficient to pay in full the total amount which
 approved applicants are eligible to receive under this part for such fiscal
 year, the Secretary shall first allocate to each such applicant which received
 funds under this part for the preceding fiscal year an amount equal to 100
 percent of the product of the per capita payment for the preceding fiscal
 year and such applicant's Indian student count for the current program year,
 plus an amount equal to the actual cost of any increase to the per capita
 figure resulting from inflationary increases to necessary costs beyond the
 institution's control.
 `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the per capita payment for any fiscal
 year shall be determined by dividing the amount available for grants to
 tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions under this part
 for such program year by the sum of the Indian student counts of such
 institutions for such program year. The Secretary shall, on the basis of
 the most accurate data available from the institutions, compute the Indian
 student count for any fiscal year for which such count was not used for
 the purpose of making allocations under this part.
 `(b) NEEDS ESTIMATE- The Secretary shall, based on the most accurate data
 available from the institutions and Indian tribes whose Indian students
 are served under this part, in consideration of employment needs, economic
 development needs, population training needs, prepare an actual budget needs
 estimate for each institution eligible under this part for each subsequent
 program year, and submit such budget needs estimate to the Congress in such
 a timely manner as will enable the appropriate committees of the Congress to
 consider such needs data for purposes of the uninterrupted flow of adequate
 appropriations to such institutions.
`SEC. 389. REPORT ON FACILITIES AND FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT.
 `(a) STUDY OF TRAINING AND HOUSING NEEDS- (1) The Secretary shall conduct
 a detailed study of the training and housing needs of each institution
 eligible under this part.
 `(2) The study required by paragraph (1) shall include an examination of--
 `(A) training equipment needs; and
 `(B) housing needs of families whose heads of household are students and
 whose dependents have no alternate source of support while such heads of
 household are students.
 `(3) The Secretary shall report to the Congress not later than July 1,
 1991, on the results of the study required by paragraph (1).
 `(4) The report required by paragraph (3) shall--
 `(A) include the number, type, and cost of meeting the needs described in
 paragraph (2); and
 `(B) rank each institution by relative need.
 `(5) In conducting the study required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
 give priority to institutions which are receiving assistance under this part.
 `(b) LONG-TERM STUDY OF FACILITIES- (1) The Secretary shall provide for
 the conduct of a long-term study of facilities of each institution eligible
 for assistance under this part.
 `(2) The study required by paragraph (1) shall include a 5-year projection of
 training facilities and equipment and housing needs and shall consider such
 factors as projected service population, employment and economic development
 forecasting, based on the most current and accurate data available from
 the institutions and Indian tribes affected.
 `(3) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a detailed report on the
 results of such study not later than the end of the 18-month period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this Act.
 `(4) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a progress report not less
 often than once every 6 months, beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this Act, concerning activities conducted pursuant to this section.
 `(c) CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION GRANTS- Pursuant to the studies conducted
 and the report submitted under subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary is
 authorized to make grants to the tribally controlled vocational institutions
 for construction, rehabilitation, major alterations and renovation of
 buildings and other physical structures for the conduct of programs funded
 under this part. Such grants shall be made in such time and pursuant to
 such applications as the Secretary shall by regulation determine.
`SEC. 390. DEFINITIONS.
 `For the purposes of this part:
 `(1) The terms `Indian' and `Indian tribe' have the meaning given such
 terms in section 2 of the Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance
 Act of 1978.
 `(2) The term `tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institution'
 means an institution of higher education which is formally controlled, or has
 been formally sanctioned or chartered by the governing body of an Indian tribe
 or tribes which offers technical degrees or certificate granting programs.
 `(3) The term `Indian student count' means a number equal to the total
 number of Indian students enrolled in each tribally controlled vocational
 institution, determined as follows:
 `(A) The registrations of Indian students as in effect on October 1 of
 each year.
 `(B) Credits or clock hours toward a certificate earned in classes offered
 during a summer term shall be counted toward the computation of the Indian
 student count in the succeeding fall term.
 `(C) Credits or clock hours toward a certificate earned in classes during
 a summer term shall be counted toward the computation of the Indian
 student count if the institution at which the student is in attendance has
 established criteria for the admission of such student on the basis of the
 student's ability to benefit from the education or training offered. The
 institution shall be presumed to have established such criteria if the
 admission procedures for such studies include counseling or testing that
 measures the student's aptitude to successfully complete the course in which
 the student has enrolled. No credit earned by such student for purposes of
 obtaining a high school degree or its equivalent shall be counted toward
 the computation of the Indian student count.
 `(D) Indian students earning credits in any continuing education program of
 a tribally controlled vocational institution shall be included in determining
 the sum of all credit or clock hours.
 `(E) Credits or clock hours earned in a continuing education program shall
 be converted to the basis that is in accordance with the institution's
 system for providing credit for participation in such programs.'.
SEC. 312. TRIBAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
 The Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance Act of 1978 is amended
 by adding at the end the following new title:
`TITLE IV--TRIBAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
`SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 `This title may be cited as the `Tribal Economic Development and Technology
 Related Education Assistance Act of 1990'.
`SEC. 402. GRANTS AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized, subject to the
 availability of appropriations, to make grants to tribally controlled
 community colleges which receive grants under either this Act or the
 Navajo Community College Act for the establishment and support of tribal
 economic development and education institutes. Each program conducted with
 assistance under a grant under this subsection shall include at least the
 following activities:
 `(1) Determination of the economic development needs and potential of the
 Indian tribes involved in the program, including agriculture and natural
 resources needs.
 `(2) Development of consistent courses of instruction to prepare postsecondary
 students, tribal officials and others to meet the needs defined under
 paragraph (1). The development of such courses may be coordinated with
 secondary institutions to the extent practicable.
 `(3) The conduct of vocational courses, including administrative expenses
 and student support services.
 `(4) Technical assistance and training to Federal, tribal and community
 officials and business managers and planners deemed necessary by the
 institution to enable full implementation of, and benefits to be derived
 from, the program developed under paragraph (1).
 `(5) Clearinghouse activities encouraging the coordination of, and providing
 a point for the coordination of, all vocational activities (and academically
 related training) serving all students of the Indian tribe involved in
 the grant.
 `(6) The evaluation of such grants and their effect on the needs developed
 under paragraph (1) and tribal economic self-sufficiency.
 `(b) AMOUNT AND DURATION- The grants shall be of such amount and duration
 as to afford the greatest opportunity for success and the generation of
 relevant data.
 `(c) APPLICATIONS- Institutions which receive funds under other titles of
 this Act or the Navajo Community College Act may apply for grants under
 this title either individually or as consortia. Each applicant shall act in
 cooperation with an Indian tribe or tribes in developing and implementing
 a grant under this part.
`SEC. 403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under this part $2,000,000
 for the fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the
 5 succeeding fiscal years.'.
SEC. 313. FACILITIES.
 Section 112 of the Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance Act of
 1978 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) The Secretary shall enter into a contract with an organization
 described in paragraph (2) to establish and provide on an annual basis
 criteria for the determination and prioritization in a consistent and
 equitable manner of the facilities construction and renovation needs
 of colleges that receive funding under this Act or the Navajo Community
 College Act.
 `(2) An organization described in this section is any organization that--
 `(A) is eligible to receive a contract under the Indian Self-Determination
 and Education Assistance Act; and
 `(B) has demonstrated expertise in areas and issues dealing with tribally
 controlled community colleges.
 `(3) The Secretary shall include the priority list established pursuant to
 this subsection in the budget submitted annually to the Congress.'.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL PROGRAMS
SEC. 401 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 The heading for part A of title IV of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`PART A--RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT'.
SEC. 402. RESEARCH OBJECTIVES.
 Section 401 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2401) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `single parents or homemakers' and inserting
 `single parents, displaced homemakers, or single pregnant women';
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as paragraphs (3), (4),
 and (5), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) to authorize additional research and development activities that are
 related to the purposes of this Act as stated in section 2;'.
SEC. 403. RESEARCH ACTIVITIES.
 Section 402 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `National Institute of Education or any other division of
 the Department of Education which the Secretary determines to be appropriate'
 and inserting `Office of Educational Research and Improvement';
 (B) in paragraph (1), by striking `individuals who are single parents or
 homemakers' and inserting `single parents, displaced homemakers, single
 pregnant women';
 (C) by striking paragraphs (5) and (6);
 (D) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6);
 (E) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (4) and (5),
 respectively;
 (F) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8);
 (G) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) research on the development and implementation of performance standards
 and measures that fit within the needs of State boards or eligible recipients
 in carrying out the provisions of this Act and on the relationship of such
 standards and measures to the data system established under section 421, which
 may include evaluation of existing performance standards and measures and
 dissemination of such information to the State board and eligible recipients;
 `(3) evaluation of the use of performance standards and measures under this
 Act and the effect of such standards and measures on the participation of
 students in vocational education programs and on the outcomes of students in
 such programs, especially students who are members of special populations;';
 (H) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by subparagraph (D) of this section)--
 (i) by inserting `and more advanced' after `basic'; and
 (ii) by inserting `and problem-solving' after `academic'; and
 (I) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as redesignated by subparagraph (D)
 of this section) the following new paragraph:
 `(7) successful methods for providing students, to the maximum extent
 practicable, with experience in and understanding of all aspects of the
 industry such students are preparing to enter; and';
 (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
 `(b) In addition, the Secretary shall support meritorious, unsolicited
 research proposals from individual researchers, community colleges, State
 advisory councils, and State and local educators relating to the goals of
 this Act.';
 (3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e),
 respectively;
 (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c) DISSEMINATION- (1) The Secretary shall establish a system for
 disseminating information resulting from research and development activities
 carried out under this Act. In establishing such system, the Secretary shall
 use existing dissemination systems, including the National Diffusion Network,
 the National Center or Centers for Research in Vocational Education, and the
 National Network for Curriculum Coordination in Vocational and Technical
 Education, in order to assure broad access at the State and local levels
 to the information being disseminated.
 `(2)(A) In order to comply with paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish
 through grants or contracts a National Network for Curriculum Coordination
 in Vocational and Technical Education (in this paragraph referred to as the
 `Network') consisting of 6 regional curriculum coordination centers. The
 Network shall--
 `(i) provide national dissemination of information on effective vocational
 education programs and materials, with particular attention to regional
 programs;
 `(ii) be accessible by electronic means;
 `(iii) provide leadership and technical assistance in the design, development,
 and dissemination of curricula for vocational education;
 `(iv) coordinate the sharing of information among the States with respect
 to vocational education curricula;
 `(v) reduce duplication of effort in State activities for the development
 of vocational education curricula; and
 `(vi) promote the use of research findings with respect to vocational
 education curricula.
 `(B) The Secretary shall encourage the designation by each State of a
 liaison representative for the Network.';
 (5) in paragraph (1) of subsection (e) (as redesignated in paragraph (3))
 by striking `(1)'; and
 (6) by striking paragraph (2) of subsection (e) (as redesignated in paragraph
 (3)).
SEC. 404. NATIONAL ASSESSMENT.
 Section 403 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 403. NATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) The Office of Education Research and Improvement (in
 this section referred to as the `Office') shall conduct a national assessment
 of vocational education programs assisted under this Act, through studies
 and analyses conducted independently through competitive awards.
 `(2) The Office shall appoint an independent advisory panel, consisting
 of vocational education administrators, educators, researchers, and
 representatives of business, industry, labor, and other relevant groups, to
 advise the Office on the implementation of such assessment, including the
 issues to be addressed, the methodology of the studies, and the findings
 and recommendations. The panel, at its discretion, may submit to the
 Congress an independent analysis of the findings and recommendations of
 the assessment. The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the
 panel established under this paragraph.
 `(b) CONTENTS- The assessment required under subsection (a) shall include
 descriptions and evaluations of--
 `(1) the effect of this Act on State and tribal administration of vocational
 education programs and on local vocational education practices, including
 the capacity of State, tribal and local vocational education systems to
 address the priorities identified in this Act;
 `(2) expenditures at the Federal, State, tribal and local levels to address
 program improvement in vocational education, including the impact of Federal
 allocation requirements (such as within-State allocation formulas) on the
 delivery of services;
 `(3) preparation and qualifications of teachers of vocational and academic
 curricula in vocational education programs, as well as shortages of such
 teachers;
 `(4) participation in vocational education programs, including, in particular,
 access of individuals who are members of special populations to high-quality
 vocational education programs and the effect on the delivery of services
 to such populations, of Federal legislation giving States flexibility in
 allocating funds to serve such populations;
 `(5) academic and employment outcomes of vocational education, including
 analyses of--
 `(A) the effect of educational reform on vocational education;
 `(B) the extent and success of integration of academic and vocational
 curricula;
 `(C) the success of the school-to-work transition; and
 `(D) the degree to which vocational training is relevant to subsequent
 employment;
 `(6) employer involvement in, and satisfaction with, vocational education
 programs;
 `(7) the effect of performance standards and other measures of accountability
 on the delivery of vocational education services;
 `(8) the effect of Federal requirements regarding criteria for services to
 special populations, participatory planning in the States, and articulation
 between secondary and postsecondary programs;
 `(9) coordination of services under this Act, the Adult Education Act,
 the Job Training Partnership Act, the National Apprenticeship Act, the
 Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Wagner-Peyser Act; and
 `(10) the degree to which minority students are involved in vocational
 student organizations.
 `(c) CONSULTATION- (1) The Secretary shall consult with the Committee on
 Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Education and
 Labor of the House of Representatives in the design and implementation of
 the assessment required under subsection (a).
 `(2) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress--
 `(A) an interim report on or before January 1, 1994; and
 `(B) a final report, summarizing all studies and analyses completed after
 the assessment, on or before July 1, 1994.
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the
 reports required by this subsection shall not be subject to any review
 outside of the Office of Educational Research and Improvement before
 their transmittal to the Congress, but the President, the Secretary,
 and the independent advisory council established under subsection (a)(2)
 may make such additional recommendations to the Congress with respect to
 the assessment as they deem appropriate.
 `(d) STUDY- (1) The assessment required by subsection (a) shall include
 a study of the distribution of Federal vocational education funds to the
 States. The study shall--
 `(A) consider the distributional effects of the formula for allocation to
 the States established in section 101(a)(2), including the age cohorts and
 the per capita income allotment ratios;
 `(B) examine the impact that various other factors such as State tax capacity,
 tax effort, per capita income, poverty and educational achievement, could
 have in achieving the Federal goals and policy objectives of this Act;
 `(C) specifically address the appropriate distribution mechanism to serve
 the target populations of this Act; and
 `(D) explore the use of other possible methods of targeting funds to
 individuals who are members of special populations, particularly individuals
 who are economically disadvantaged, including the poverty rate of the
 school-aged population, the gross State product per school-aged child,
 relative tax capacity, and tax effort of the State, unemployment figures,
 and dropout rates.
 `(2) The findings of the study required by paragraph (1) shall be used to
 formulate recommendations on the most appropriate criteria and methods to
 direct Federal funds to the States and to achieve the Federal goals and
 policy objectives of this Act.
 `(3) The study required under paragraph (1) shall be completed by January
 1, 1994.'.
SEC. 405. NATIONAL CENTER OR CENTERS FOR RESEARCH IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
 Section 404 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 404. NATIONAL CENTER OR CENTERS FOR RESEARCH IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- (1) In order to address the purposes of this Act
 through the involvement of a broad array of individuals, including both
 vocational and academic teachers and administrators, the Secretary is
 authorized to award a grant or grants for the establishment of 1 or 2
 national centers in the areas of--
 `(A) applied research and development; and
 `(B) dissemination and training.
 `(2)(A) Each entity selected to establish and operate a Center pursuant to
 paragraph (1) shall operate such Center for a period of 5 years.
 `(B) Beginning after December 31, 1992, the Secretary shall award an annual
 grant to the National Center or Centers selected pursuant to paragraph (1)
 for each of the 5 years such National Center is operated. After the third
 year in which the National Center or Centers receive a grant under this
 section the Secretary shall review the research priorities of the National
 Center or Centers.
 `(3) Of the amount available pursuant to section 451(a)(1) for purposes of
 carrying out this section, at least  2/3  of such amount shall be available
 for applied research and development.
 `(4)(A) The Secretary shall hold a competition at the same point in time
 for the grant or grants for the activities described in paragraph (1). Any
 institution of higher education or consortium of such institutions may
 compete for either or both sets of activities.
 `(B) For the purpose of this section the term `institution of higher
 education' has the same meaning as provided by section 435(b) of the Higher
 Education Act of 1965.
 `(5) If an institution or consortium demonstrates that it can effectively
 carry out both activities either directly or through contracting,
 such institution or consortium shall be given a preference in the grant
 selection. If no institution or consortium demonstrates such capability
 and 2 grants are awarded, the Secretary must assure coordination of the
 activities under both grants.
 `(6) Not more than 10 percent of each year's budget for the Center or
 for each of the Centers may be used to respond to field-initiated needs
 unanticipated prior to the annual funding period and which are in the
 mission of the Center but not part of the scope of work of the grant.
 `(7) The National Center in existence on the date of the enactment of the Carl
 D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990
 shall continue to operate through its 5-year cycle ending December 31, 1992.
 `(b) ACTIVITIES- (1) The applied research and development activities shall
 include--
 `(A) economic changes that affect the skills which employers seek and
 entrepreneurs need;
 `(B) integration of academic and vocational education;
 `(C) efficient and effective practices for addressing the needs of special
 populations;
 `(D) efficient and effective methods for delivering vocational education;
 `(E) articulation of school and college instruction with high quality
 work experience;
 `(F) recruitment, education, and enhancement of vocational teachers and
 other professionals in the field;
 `(G) accountability processes in vocational education, to include
 identification and evaluation of the use of appropriate performance standards
 for student, program, and State-level outcomes;
 `(H) effective practices that educate students in all aspects of the industry
 the students are preparing to enter;
 `(I) effective methods for identifying and inculcating literacy and
 other communication skills essential for effective job preparation and
 job performance;
 `(J) identification of strategic, high priority occupational skills and
 skills formation approaches needed to maintain the competitiveness of the
 United States workforce, sustain high-wage, high-technology jobs and which
 address national priorities such as technical jobs needed to protect and
 restore the environment;
 `(K) identification of practices and strategies that address entrepreneurial
 development for minority-owned enterprises; and
 `(L) upon negotiation with the Center, and if funds are provided pursuant
 to subsection (d), such other topics as the Secretary may designate.
 `(2) The Center conducting the activities described in paragraph (1) shall
 annually prepare a study on the research conducted on approaches that lead
 to effective articulation for the education-to-work transition, including
 tech-prep programs, cooperative education or other work-based programs,
 such as innovative apprenticeship or mentoring approaches, and shall submit
 copies of such study to the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Labor,
 the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Committee on Labor and
 Human Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and Labor of
 the House of Representatives.
 `(c) DISSEMINATION AND TRAINING- (1) The dissemination and training activities
 shall include--
 `(A) teacher and administrator training and leadership development;
 `(B) technical assistance to assure that programs serving special populations
 are effective in delivering well-integrated and appropriately articulated
 vocational and academic offerings for secondary, postsecondary, and adult
 students;
 `(C) needs assessment, design, and implementation of new and revised
 programs with related curriculum materials to facilitate vocational-academic
 integration;
 `(D) evaluation and follow-through to maintain and extend quality programs;
 `(E) assistance in technology transfer and articulation of program offerings
 from advanced technology centers to minority enterprises;
 `(F) assistance to programs and States on the use of accountability
 indicators, including appropriate and innovative performance standards;
 `(G) delivery of information and services using advanced technology, where
 appropriate, to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of knowledge
 transfer;
 `(H) development of processes for synthesis of research, in cooperation with
 a broad array of users, including vocational and non-vocational educators,
 employers and labor organizations;
 `(I) dissemination of exemplary curriculum and instructional materials,
 and development and publication of curriculum materials (in conjunction
 with vocational and non-vocational constituency groups, where appropriate);
 `(J) technical assistance in recruiting, hiring, and advancing minorities
 in vocational education; and
 `(K) upon negotiation with the Center and if funds are provided pursuant
 to subsection (d), such other topics as the Secretary may designate.
 `(2) The Center conducting the activities described in paragraph (1) shall
 annually prepare a study on the dissemination and training activities
 described in paragraph (1) and shall submit copies of such study to the
 Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services, the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,
 and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives.
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF OTHER RESEARCH- There are authorized to be appropriated
 $3,000,000 for the fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for each
 of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995 to carry out such additional
 activities assigned by the Secretary to the National Center in existence
 on the date of enactment of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied
 Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990 until the termination of its
 grant on December 31, 1992 and to carry out the provisions of subsections
 (b)(1)(L) and (c)(1)(K).'.
SEC. 406. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part B of title IV of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`PART B--DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS
`SEC. 411. PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- From amounts available pursuant to section 101(a)(1)(A)
 in each fiscal year, the Secretary shall make demonstration grants in
 accordance with the provisions of this part.
 `(b) PRIORITY- In awarding demonstration grants pursuant to this part,
 the Secretary shall give priority to the programs described in sections
 412 and 413.
`SEC. 412. MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 nonprofit educational telecommunications entities to pay the Federal share of
 the costs of the development, production, and distribution of instructional
 telecommunications materials and services for use in local vocational and
 technical educational schools and colleges.
 `(b) FEDERAL SHARE- (1) The Federal share of the cost of each project
 assisted under this section shall be 50 percent.
 `(2) The non-Federal share of the cost of each project assisted under this
 section shall be provided from non-Federal sources.
 `(c) USE OF FUNDS- Grants awarded pursuant to this section may be used
 to provide--
 `(1) a sequential course of study that includes either preproduced video
 courseware or direct interactive teaching delivered via satellite, accompanied
 by a variety of print and computer-based instructional materials;
 `(2) the development of individual videocassettes or a series of
 videocassettes that supplement instruction, which shall be distributed both
 via broadcast and nonbroadcast means;
 `(3) videodiscs that produce simulated hands-on training; and
 `(4) teacher training programs for vocational educators and administrators
 and correctional educators.
 `(d) PRIORITY- In awarding grants under this section the Secretary shall
 give priority to programs or projects which serve--
 `(1) students in area vocational and technical schools;
 `(2) teachers, administrators, and counselors in need of training or
 retraining;
 `(3) out-of-school adults in need of basic skills improvement or a high
 school equivalency diploma to improve the employability of such individuals;
 `(4) college students, particularly college students who are working toward
 a 2-year associate degree from a technical or community college;
 `(5) workers in need of basic skills, vocational instruction, or career
 counseling to retain employment; and
 `(6) workers who need to improve their skills to obtain jobs in high-growth
 industries.
`SEC. 413. DEMONSTRATION CENTERS FOR THE TRAINING OF DISLOCATED WORKERS.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized to establish 1 or
 more demonstration centers for the retraining of dislocated workers. Such
 center or centers may provide for the recruitment of unemployed workers,
 vocational evaluation, assessment and counseling services, vocational and
 technical training, support services, and job placement assistance. The
 design and operation of each center shall provide for the utilization of
 appropriate existing Federal, State, and local programs.
 `(b) EVALUATION- The Secretary shall provide for the evaluation of each
 center established under subsection (a).
 `(c) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary shall disseminate information
 on successful retraining models developed by any center established under
 subsection (a) through dissemination programs operated by the Secretary
 and the Secretary of Labor.
 `(d) ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS- Any private, nonprofit organization that
 is eligible to receive funding under the Job Training Partnership Act is
 eligible to receive funding under this section.
`SEC. 414. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) TRAINING AND STUDY GRANTS- (1) The Secretary is authorized to provide
 grants to institutions of higher education, State educational agencies, or
 State correctional education agencies to provide grants, awards, or stipends--
 `(A) to individuals who are entering the field of vocational education;
 `(B) for graduate training in vocational education;
 `(C) for vocational teacher education; and
 `(D) for attracting gifted and talented students in vocational programs
 into further study and professional development.
 `(2) Grants, awards, and stipends awarded under paragraph (1) shall provide--
 `(A) opportunities for experienced vocational educators;
 `(B) opportunities for--
 `(i) certified teachers who have been trained to teach in other fields
 to become vocational educators, including teachers with skills related to
 vocational fields who can be trained as vocational educators, and especially
 minority instructors and instructors with experience in teaching individuals
 who are economically disadvantaged, individuals with handicaps, students
 of limited English proficiency, and adult and juvenile criminal offenders;
 `(ii) individuals in industry who have skills and experience in vocational
 fields to be trained as vocational educators; and
 `(iii) vocational educators to improve or maintain technological currency
 in their fields; and
 `(C) opportunities for gifted and talented vocational education secondary and
 postsecondary students to intern with Federal or State agencies, nationally
 recognized vocational education associations and student organizations or
 the National Center or Centers  for Research in Vocational Education.
 `(b) LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AWARDS- (1) In order to meet the needs of all
 States for qualified vocational education leaders (such as administrators,
 supervisors, teacher educators, researchers, career guidance and vocational
 counseling personnel, vocational student organization leadership personnel
 and teachers in vocational education programs), the Secretary shall make
 grants to institutions of higher education for leadership development
 awards. Individuals selected for such awards shall--
 `(A) have not less than 3 years of experience in vocational education or in
 industrial training, or, in the case of researchers, experience in social
 science research which is applicable to vocational education;
 `(B) are currently employed or are reasonably assured of employment in
 vocational education and have successfully completed at least a baccalaureate
 degree program;
 `(C) are recommended by their employer, or others, as having leadership
 potential in the field of vocational education and have been accepted for
 admission as a graduate student in a program of higher education approved
 by the Secretary; and
 `(D) have made a commitment to return to the field of vocational education
 upon completion of education provided through the leadership development
 award.
 `(2) For a period of not more than 3 years, stipends shall be paid to
 individuals selected for leadership development awards. Such stipends shall
 be paid (including allowances for tuition, nonrefundable fees, and other
 expenses for such individuals and their dependents) as may be determined
 to be consistent with prevailing practices.
 `(3) The Secretary may provide grants to institutions for stipends to
 individuals, which shall not exceed $9,000 per individual per academic year or
 its equivalent and $3,000 per individual per summer session or its equivalent.
 `(4) The Secretary shall approve the application of the vocational education
 program of an institution of higher education for the purposes of this
 section only upon finding that--
 `(A) the institution offers a comprehensive program in vocational education
 with adequate supporting services and disciplines such as education
 administration, career guidance and vocational counseling, research, and
 curriculum development;
 `(B) such program is designed to substantially advance the objective of
 improving vocational education through providing opportunities for graduate
 training of vocational teachers, supervisors, and administrators, and of
 university-level vocational education teacher educators and researchers; and
 `(C) such programs are conducted by a school of graduate study in the
 institution of higher education.
 `(5) The Secretary, in carrying out this subsection shall apportion leadership
 development awards to institutions of higher education equitably among the
 States, taking into account such factors as the State's vocational education
 enrollments and the need for additional vocational education personnel in
 the State.
 `(6) Each individual who receives a leadership development award under this
 subsection shall receive payments as provided in paragraph (2) for not more
 than a 3-year period during which such individual is--
 `(A) pursuing a full-time course of study in vocational education in an
 approved institution of higher education;
 `(B) maintaining satisfactory proficiency in such course of study; and
 `(C) not engaged in gainful employment other than part-time employment by
 such institution in teaching, research, or similar activities.
 `(c) VOCATIONAL EDUCATOR TRAINING FELLOWSHIPS- (1) The purpose of this
 subsection is to provide fellowships--
 `(A) to meet the need to provide adequate numbers of teachers and related
 classroom instructors in vocational education who are technologically
 current in their fields;
 `(B) to take full advantage of the education which has been provided
 to already certified teachers who are unable to find employment in their
 fields of training and of individuals employed in industry who have skills
 and experience in vocational fields; and
 `(C) to encourage more instructors from minority groups and teachers with
 skills and experience with individuals of limited English proficiency to
 become vocational education teachers.
 `(2) The Secretary shall make available fellowships, in accordance with
 the provisions of this subsection, to individuals (especially minority
 instructors and instructors with experience in teaching individuals who
 are economically disadvantaged, individuals with disabilities, students of
 limited English proficiency, and adult and juvenile criminal offenders) who--
 `(A)(i)(I) are employed in vocational education and need an opportunity to
 improve or maintain technological skills;
 `(II) are certified by a State, or were so certified during the 10-year
 period preceding their application for a fellowship under this subsection,
 as teachers in secondary schools, area vocational education schools or
 institutes, or in community or junior colleges; and
 `(III) have skills and experiences in vocational fields so that such
 individuals can be trained to be vocational educators; or
 `(ii) are employed in agriculture, business, or industry (and may or may not
 hold a baccalaureate degree) and have skills and experience in vocational
 fields for which there is a need for vocational educators;
 `(B) have been accepted in a program to become a vocational educator by an
 institution of higher education approved by the Secretary; and
 `(C) have made a commitment to work in the field of vocational education
 upon completion of such program.
 `(2) The Secretary shall, for a period of not more than 2 years, provide
 stipends to individuals who are awarded fellowships under this subsection
 (including such allowances for tuition, nonrefundable fees, subsistence and
 other expenses for such individuals and the dependents of such individuals)
 as the Secretary may determine to be consistent with prevailing practices.
 `(3) The Secretary shall approve an institution of higher education under
 this subsection if--
 `(A) the institution offers a comprehensive program in vocational education
 with adequate supporting services and disciplines such as education
 administration, career guidance and vocational counseling, research and
 curriculum development; and
 `(B) such program is available to individuals receiving fellowships under this
 subsection so that such individuals receive the same quality of education
 and training provided for undergraduate students at such institution who
 are preparing to become vocational education teachers.
 `(4) The Secretary shall apportion the fellowships available under this
 subsection equitably among the States, taking into account such factors as
 the State's vocational education enrollments, and the need in the State
 for additional vocational educators, especially minority educators and
 individuals with skills and experience in teaching individuals of limited
 English proficiency.
 `(5) Individuals receiving fellowships under this subsection shall continue
 to receive payments provided in paragraph (2) only during such period as
 such individuals--
 `(A) are maintaining satisfactory proficiency;
 `(B) are devoting full time to study in the field of vocational education
 in an institution of higher education; and
 `(C) are not engaging in gainful employment other than part-time employment
 by such institution.
 `(6)(A) The Secretary shall, before the beginning of each fiscal year for
 which amounts are appropriated or otherwise made available to carry out
 this subsection, publish a listing of--
 `(i) the areas of teaching in vocational education in need of additional
 personnel;
 `(ii) the areas of teaching which will likely have need of additional
 personnel in the future; and
 `(iii) areas of teaching in which technological upgrading may be especially
 critical.
 `(B) The listing required by subparagraph (A) shall be based on information
 from the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee, State
 occupational information coordinating committees, the vocational education
 data system established pursuant to section 421, and other appropriate
 sources.
 `(7) In selecting recipients for fellowships under this subsection, the
 Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, grant fellowships to
 individuals seeking to become teachers or improve their skills in the areas
 identified in the listing required by paragraph (6)(A).
 `(d) INTERNSHIPS FOR GIFTED AND TALENTED STUDENTS- (1) The purpose of
 this subsection is to provide stipends for internships to meet the need of
 attracting gifted and talented vocational education students into further
 study and professional development in the field of vocational education.
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall, from recommendations provided by State
 directors of vocational education, select gifted and talented students
 from vocational education secondary and postsecondary programs to work as
 interns for Federal and State agencies, nationally recognized vocational
 education associations, or the National Center or Centers for Research in
 Vocational Education. Each such student shall receive a stipend for the
 period of the student's internship, which shall not exceed 9 months. Such
 stipend shall cover subsistence and other expenses for such individuals
 and shall be in such amount as the Secretary may determine to be consistent
 with prevailing practices.
 `(B) Each individual selected under this paragraph shall have been
 recommended as gifted and talented by a vocational educator at the secondary
 or postsecondary school the student attends.
 `(C) Each individual selected under this paragraph shall, during the period
 of such individual's internship, be provided with professional supervision by
 an individual qualified and experienced in the field of vocational education
 at the agency or institution at which the internship is offered.
`SEC. 415. BLUE RIBBON VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
 `(a) INFORMATION DISSEMINATION- The Secretary is authorized to disseminate
 information and exemplary materials regarding effective vocational education.
 `(b) STANDARDS OF EXCELLENCE- (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the
 National Center or Centers for Research in Vocational Education (in this
 section referred to as the `National Center or Centers for Research'),
 the National Diffusion Network, and the Blue Ribbon Schools Program, is
 authorized to carry out programs to recognize secondary and postsecondary
 schools or programs which have established standards of excellence in
 vocational education and which have demonstrated a high level of quality. Such
 schools and programs shall be known as `Blue Ribbon Vocational Programs'. The
 Secretary shall competitively select schools and programs to be recognized
 from among public and private schools or programs within the States and
 schools funded by the Department of the Interior.
 `(2) In the case of a private school or vocational education program that
 is designated as a Blue Ribbon Vocational Education Program, the Secretary
 shall make suitable arrangements to provide the award to such school.
 `(c) AWARDS- (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the National Center or
 Centers for Research and the National Occupational Information Coordinating
 Committee (in this section referred to as the `Committee'), is authorized to
 designate each fiscal year a category or several categories of vocational
 education, which may include tech-prep education, in which Blue Ribbon
 Vocational Education Program awards will be named. Such categories shall
 emphasize the expansion or strengthening of the participation of individuals
 who are members of special populations and may give special consideration
 to any of the following:
 `(A) program improvement;
 `(B) academic and occupational competencies; and
 `(C) other categories determined by the Secretary in consultation with the
 National Center or Centers for Research and the Committee.
 `(2) Within each category, the Secretary shall determine the criteria and
 procedures for selection. Selection for such awards shall be based solely
 on merit. Schools or programs selected for awards under this section shall
 not be required to be representative of the States.
 `(d) CONSULTATION- (1) The Secretary shall carry out the provisions of
 this section, including the establishment of the selection procedures,
 after consultation with appropriate outside parties.
 `(2) No award may be made under this section unless the local educational
 agency, area vocational education school, intermediate educational agency,
 tribal authority, Bureau of Indian Affairs, or appropriate State agency with
 jurisdiction over the school or program involved submits an application to
 the Secretary at such time, in such manner and containing such information
 as the Secretary may reasonably require.
`SEC. 416. DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS AND EDUCATION STANDARDS.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that, in order to meet the needs of business
 for competent entry-level workers who have received a quality vocational
 education, national standards should be developed for competencies in
 industries and trades.
 `(b) GENERAL AUTHORITY- (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary
 of Labor, is authorized to establish a program of grants to industrial trade
 associations, labor organizations, or comparable national organizations
 for purposes of organizing and operating business-labor-education technical
 committees.
 `(2) The committees established with assistance under this section shall
 propose national standards for competencies in industries and trades. Such
 standards shall at least include standards for--
 `(A) major divisions or specialty areas identified within occupations studied;
 `(B) minimum hours of study to be competent in such divisions or specialty
 areas;
 `(C) minimum tools and equipment required in such divisions or specialty
 areas;
 `(D) minimum qualifications for instructional staff; and
 `(E) minimum tasks to be included in any course of study purporting to
 prepare individuals for work in such divisions or specialty areas.
 `(c) MATCHING REQUIREMENT- Each recipient of a grant under this section
 shall agree to provide for the committee to be established under the grant
 an amount equal to the amount provided under the grant.
 `(d) APPLICATION- Any industrial trade association, labor organization,
 national joint apprenticeship committee, or comparable national organization
 that desires to receive a grant under this section shall submit to the
 Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing or
 accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
`SEC. 417. EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR FEDERAL CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 Federal correctional institutions in consortia with educational institutions,
 community-based organizations of demonstrated effectiveness, or business
 and industry, to provide education and training for criminal offenders in
 such institutions.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- Grants awarded pursuant to this section may be used for--
 `(1) basic education programs with an emphasis on literacy instruction;
 `(2) vocational training programs;
 `(3) guidance and counseling programs; and
 `(4) supportive services for criminal offenders, with special emphasis on
 the coordination of educational services with agencies furnishing services
 to criminal offenders after such offenders are released from correctional
 institutions.
`SEC. 418. DROPOUT PREVENTION.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 partnerships between--
 `(1) local educational agencies or area vocational education schools; and
 `(2) institutions of higher education or public or private nonprofit
 organizations which have an established record of vocational education
 strategies that prevent students from dropping out of school.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- Grants awarded under this section shall be used to
 develop, implement, and operate vocational education programs designed to
 prevent students from dropping out of school. Such programs shall--
 `(1) serve special populations, including significant numbers of economically
 disadvantaged dropout-prone youth;
 `(2) provide inservice training for teachers and administrators in dropout
 prevention; and
 `(3) disseminate information relating to successful dropout prevention
 strategies and programs through the National Dropout Prevention Network
 and the Center on Adult, Career and Vocational Education of the Educational
 Resources Information Clearinghouse.
 `(c) PRIORITY- In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall
 give priority to partnerships which--
 `(1) provide the special support services necessary to help individual
 students successfully complete the program such as mentoring, basic skills
 education, and services which address barriers to learning; and
 `(2) utilize measures to integrate basic and academic skills instruction
 with work experience and vocational education.
`SEC. 419. MODEL PROGRAMS OF REGIONAL TRAINING FOR SKILLED TRADES.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 regional model centers which provide--
 `(1) training for skilled tradesmen within a region serving several States,
 and
 `(2) technical assistance for programs which train such tradesmen within
 a region serving several States.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- The regional model centers described in subsection
 (a) shall--
 `(1) provide training and career counseling for skilled tradesmen in areas
 of skill shortages or projected skilled shortages;
 `(2) provide prejob and apprenticeship training and career counseling in
 skilled trades;
 `(3) upgrade specialized craft training; and
 `(4) improve the access of women, minorities, economically disadvantaged
 individuals, individuals with handicaps and ex-criminal offenders to trade
 occupations and training.
 `(c) SPECIAL RULE- In awarding grants under this section, and to the extent
 practicable, the Secretary shall ensure an equitable distribution of funds
 available under this section to the various skilled trades.
`SEC. 420. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS FOR THE INTEGRATION OF VOCATIONAL AND
ACADEMIC LEARNING.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to
 institutions of higher education, area vocational education schools, local
 educational agencies, secondary schools funded by the Bureau of Indian
 Affairs, State boards, public or private nonprofit organizations, or any
 consortia thereof, to develop, implement and operate programs using different
 models of curricula which integrate vocational and academic learning by--
 `(1) designing integrated curricula and courses;
 `(2) providing inservice training for teachers and administrators in
 integrated curricula; and
 `(3) disseminating information regarding effective integrative strategies
 to other school districts through the National Diffusion Network established
 under section 1562 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
 `(b) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO GRANT AWARDS- In awarding grants under this
 section, the Secretary shall ensure--
 `(1) an equitable geographic distribution of funds awarded pursuant to
 this section;
 `(2) that programs supported under this section offer significantly different
 approaches to integrating curricula;
 `(3) that the programs supported under this section serve individuals who
 are members of special populations;
 `(4) that programs supported under this section serve--
 `(A) vocational students in secondary schools and at postsecondary
 institutions;
 `(B) individuals enrolled in adult programs; and
 `(C) single parents, displaced homemakers, and single pregnant women; and
 `(5) that adequate evaluation measures will be employed to measure the
 effectiveness of the curriculum approaches supported under this section.
`SEC. 420A. COOPERATIVE DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to carry out, directly
 or through grants to or contracts with State and local educational agencies,
 postsecondary educational institutions, institutions of higher education,
 and other public and private agencies, organizations, and institutions,
 programs and projects which support--
 `(1) model programs providing improved access to quality vocational
 education programs for those individuals described in section 521(31)
 of this Act and for men and women seeking nontraditional occupations;
 `(2) examples of successful cooperation between the private sector and
 public agencies in vocational education, involving employers or consortia
 of employers or labor organizations and building trade councils, and
 State boards or eligible recipients designed to demonstrate ways in which
 vocational education and the private sector of the economy can work together
 effectively to assist vocational education students to attain the advanced
 level of skills needed to make the transition from school to productive
 employment, including--
 `(A) work experience and apprenticeship programs;
 `(B) transitional worksite job training for vocational education students
 which is related to their occupational goals and closely linked to classroom
 and laboratory instruction provided by an eligible recipient;
 `(C) placement services in occupations which the students are preparing
 to enter;
 `(D) where practical, projects (such as the rehabilitation of public schools
 or housing in inner cities or economically depressed rural areas) that will
 benefit the public; and
 `(E) employment-based learning programs;
 `(3) programs to overcome national skill shortages, as designated by the
 Secretary in cooperation with the Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Defense,
 and Secretary of Commerce;
 `(4) model programs described in section 312(b)(1), including child growth
 and development centers;
 `(5) grants to community-based organizations in partnerships with local
 schools, institutions of higher education, and businesses for programs
 and projects that assist disadvantaged youths in preparing for technical
 and professional health careers (which partnerships should include in-kind
 contributions from such schools, institutions, and businesses and involve
 health professionals serving as preceptors and counselors); and
 `(6) model programs providing improved access to vocational education
 programs through centers to be known as agriculture action centers, which
 programs shall be operated under regulations developed by the Secretary in
 consultation with the Secretary of Labor and--
 `(A) shall assist--
 `(i) individuals who are adversely affected by farm and rural economic
 downturns;
 `(ii) individuals who are dislocated from farming; and
 `(iii) individuals who are dislocated from agriculturally-related businesses
 and industries that are adversely affected by farm and rural economic
 downturns;
 `(B) shall provide services, including--
 `(i) crisis management counseling and outreach counseling that would include
 members of the family of the affected individual;
 `(ii) evaluation of vocational skills and counseling on enhancement of
 such skills;
 `(iii) assistance in obtaining training in basic, remedial, and literacy
 skills;
 `(iv) assistance in seeking employment and training in employment-seeking
 skills; and
 `(v) assistance in obtaining training related to operating a business
 or enterprise;
 `(C) shall provide for formal and on-the-job training to the extent
 practicable; and
 `(D) shall be coordinated with activities and discretionary programs
 conducted under title III of the Job Training Partnership Act.
 `(b)(1) Projects described in clause (2) of subsection (a) may include
 institutional and on-the-job training, supportive services authorized by
 this Act, and such other necessary assistance as the Secretary determines
 to be necessary for the successful completion of the project.
 `(2) Not less than 25 percent of the cost of the demonstration programs
 authorized by this subpart shall be provided by the recipient of the grant or
 contract, and such share may be in the form of cash or in-kind contributions,
 including facilities, overhead, personnel, and equipment fairly valued.
 `(c) All programs assisted under this section shall be--
 `(1) of direct service to individuals enrolled in such programs; and
 `(2) capable of wide replication by service providers.
 `(d) The Secretary shall disseminate the results of the programs and projects
 assisted under this section in a manner designed to improve the training
 of teachers, other instructional personnel, counsellors, and administrators
 who are needed to carry out the purposes of this Act.'.
SEC. 407. DATA SYSTEMS AUTHORIZED.
 Section 421 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2421) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 421. DATA SYSTEMS AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM- (1) The Secretary shall, directly, or by grant,
 contract or cooperative agreement, establish a vocational educational data
 system (in this section referred to as the `system'), using comparative
 information elements and uniform definitions, to the extent practicable.
 `(2) The Secretary shall establish the system not later than the end of the
 6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins
 Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990.
 `(3) The National Center for Education Statistics (in this section referred to
 as the `National Center') shall coordinate the development and implementation
 of the system.
 `(b) FUNCTIONS OF SYSTEM- Through the system, the Secretary shall collect
 data and analyze such data in order to provide--
 `(1) the Congress with information relevant to policymaking; and
 `(2) Federal, State, and local agencies and Tribal agencies with information
 relevant to program management, administration and effectiveness with
 respect to education and employment opportunities.
 `(c) CONTENTS OF SYSTEM- (1)(A) The system shall include information--
 `(i) describing the major elements of the vocational education system on
 at least a national basis, including information with respect to teachers,
 administrators, students, facilities, and, to the extent practicable,
 equipment; and
 `(ii) describing the condition of vocational education with respect to the
 elements described in clause (i).
 `(B) The information described in subparagraph (A) shall be provided, to
 the extent practicable, in the context of other educational data relating
 to the condition of the overall education system.
 `(C) The Secretary, in consultation with the Task Force, the National Center,
 and the Office of Adult and Vocational Education (in this section referred
 to as the `Office'), shall modify existing general purpose and program
 data systems to ensure that an appropriate vocational education component
 is included in the design, implementation and reporting of such systems in
 order to fulfill the information requirements of this section.
 `(2) The information system shall include data reflecting the extent of
 participation of the following populations:
 `(A) women;
 `(B) Indians;
 `(C) individuals with handicaps;
 `(D) individuals of limited English proficiency;
 `(E) economically disadvantaged students (including information on students
 in rural and urban areas);
 `(F) adults who are in need of training and retraining;
 `(G) single parents;
 `(H) youths incarcerated in juvenile detention or correctional facilities
 or criminal offenders who are serving time in correctional institutions;
 `(I) individuals who participate in programs designed to eliminate gender
 bias and sex stereotyping in vocational education;
 `(J) minorities; and
 `(K) displaced homemakers.
 `(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the National Center and the Office,
 shall maintain and update the system at least every 3 years and assure
 the system provides the highest quality statistics and is adequate to meet
 the information needs of this Act. In carrying out the requirements of this
 paragraph, the Secretary shall ensure that appropriate methodologies are used
 in assessments of students of limited English proficiency and students with
 handicaps to ensure valid and reliable comparisons with the general student
 population and across program areas. With respect to standardized tests and
 assessments administered under this Act, test results shall be used as 1 of
 multiple independent indicators in assessment of performance and achievement.
 `(d) ASSESSMENT OF INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS- The Center shall
 carry out an assessment of data availability and adequacy with respect
 to international competitiveness in vocational skills. To the extent
 practicable, the assessment shall include comparative policy-relevant
 data on vocational education in nations which are major trade partners of
 the United States. The assessment shall at a minimum identify available
 internationally comparative data on vocational education and options for
 obtaining and upgrading such data. The results of the assessment required
 by this paragraph shall be reported to the appropriate committees of the
 Congress not later than August 31, 1994.
 `(e) USE OF AND COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER DATA COLLECTION SYSTEMS- (1)
 In establishing, maintaining, and updating the system, the Secretary shall--
 `(A) use existing data collection systems operated by the Secretary and,
 to the extent appropriate, data collection systems operated by other
 Federal agencies;
 `(B) conduct additional data collection efforts to augment the data collection
 systems described in subparagraph (A) by providing information necessary
 for policy analysis required by this section; and
 `(C) use any independent data collection efforts that are complementary to
 the data collection efforts described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).
 `(2) In carrying out the responsibilities imposed by this part, the Secretary
 shall cooperate with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, and
 the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee established under
 section 422 with respect to the development of an information system under
 section 463 of the Job Training Partnership Act to ensure that the information
 system operated under this section is compatible with and complementary
 to other occupational supply and demand information systems developed or
 maintained with Federal assistance. The Secretary shall also ensure that
 the system allows international comparisons to the extent feasible.
 `(3) The Secretary shall assure that the system, to the extent practicable,
 uses data definitions common to State plans, performance standards, local
 applications and evaluations required by this Act. The data in the system
 shall be available for use in preparing such plans, standards, applications,
 and evaluations.
 `(f) REPORTS- The Secretary shall report to the Congress at least biennially
 with respect to--
 `(1) the performance of the system established under subsection (a); and
 `(2) strategies to improve the system and expand its implementation.
 `(g) VOCATIONAL EDUCATION ADVISORY TASK FORCE- (1) The Secretary, in
 consultation with the National Center and the Office shall establish a
 Vocational Education Advisory Task Force.
 `(2) The Secretary shall establish the Task Force before the expiration of the
 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins
 Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990, and shall
 terminate upon the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on such date.
 `(3) The Task Force shall advise the Secretary on the development and
 implementation of an information reporting and accounting system responsive
 to the diverse programs supported by this Act.
 `(4) The membership of the Task Force shall be representative of Federal,
 State, and local agencies and Tribal agencies affected by technological
 information, representatives of secondary and vocational postsecondary
 educational institutions, representatives of vocational student organizations,
 representatives of special populations, representatives of adult training
 programs funded under this Act, and representatives of apprenticeships,
 business, and industry.
 `(5) The National Center shall provide the Task Force with staff for the
 purpose of carrying out its functions.
 `(h) ASSESSMENT OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS ACTIVITIES- As a regular part of its
 assessments, the National Assessment of Educational Progress shall collect
 and report information for at least a nationally representative subsample
 of vocational education students, including students who are members of
 special populations, which shall allow for fair and accurate assessment
 and comparison of the educational achievement of vocational education
 students and other students in the areas assessed. Such assessment may
 include international comparisons.'.
SEC. 408. NATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL INFORMATION COORDINATING COMMITTEE.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO HEADING- The heading for section 422 of the Act is amended
 to read as follows:
`NATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL INFORMATION COORDINATING COMMITTEE'.
 (b) AMENDMENT TO TEXT- Section 422 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting after `Coordinating Committee' the following: `(in this
 section referred to as the `Committee')';
 (B) by inserting after `Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Language
 Affairs,' the following: `the Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary
 Education,';
 (C) by striking `(Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)' and inserting
 `(Force Management and Personnel)';
 (D) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `, including regularly updated data on employment demand for agribusiness';
 (E) in paragraph (3)--
 (i) by striking `conduct studies on' and inserting the following: `conduct
 studies to improve the quality and delivery of occupational information
 systems to assist economic development activities, and examine'; and
 (ii) by striking `and' at the end thereof;
 (F) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
 (G) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraphs:
 `(4) continue training, technical assistance activities to support
 comprehensive career guidance, and vocational counseling programs designed
 to promote improved career decisionmaking by individuals (especially in
 areas of career information delivery and use);
 `(5) coordinate the efforts of Federal, State, and local agencies and Tribal
 agencies with respect to such programs; and';
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(c)(1)(A) The Committee, in consultation with the National Center or Centers
 for Research in Vocational Education, appropriate Federal agencies, and
 the States, shall establish a demonstration program to monitor educational
 outcomes for vocational education using wage and other records. The Committee
 shall develop procedures for establishing and maintaining nationally
 accessible information on a sample of wage and earning records maintained by
 States on earnings, establishment and industry affiliation and geographical
 location, and on educational activities. This information shall be collected
 on at least an annual basis. The program shall ensure that a scientific sample
 of vocational education students and nonvocational education students, local
 educational agencies, and States participate in the program. The Committee
 shall maintain, analyze, and report data collected under the program and
 shall provide technical assistance to States, local educational agencies,
 and others that wish to participate in the study.
 `(B)(i) Participation in the program described in subparagraph (A) shall be
 voluntary. The Committee shall enter into an agreement with any State which
 desires to carry out a study for the State under this subsection. Each such
 agreement shall contain provisions designed to assure--
 `(I) that the State will participate in the study;
 `(II) that the State will pay from non-Federal sources the non-Federal
 share of participation; and
 `(III) that the State agrees to the terms and conditions specified in
 this section.
 `(ii) For each fiscal year, the non-Federal share for the purpose of this
 program shall be the cost of conducting the study in the State, including
 the cost of administering the assessment for the State sample and the cost
 of coordination within the State.
 `(2) The program shall provide for an independent evaluation conducted by
 the Office of Technology Assessment of the Congress to assess the validity,
 fairness, accuracy, and utility of the data it produces. The report shall
 also describe the technical problems encountered and a description of what
 was learned about how to best implement and utilize data from the program.
 `(3) The provision of wage and other records to the Committee by a State
 employment security agency shall be voluntary and pursuant to an agreement
 between the Committee and the agency. Such agreement shall take into
 consideration issues such as--
 `(A) reimbursing the State employment security agency for the costs to the
 agency of providing the information; and
 `(B) compliance with safeguards established by the State employment security
 agency and determined by the Secretary of Labor to be appropriate to ensure
 that the information disclosed to the Committee is used only for the purposes
 of this subsection.
 `(4) The Executive Director of the Committee, in consultation with the
 Secretary, shall ensure that all personally identifiable information about
 students, their educational performance and their families and information
 with respect to individual schools shall remain confidential in accordance
 with the provisions of section 552 of title 5, United States Code. The
 data gathered under this subsection shall not be used to rank, compare, or
 otherwise evaluate individual students or individual schools. No individual
 may be included in the program without that individual's written consent. At
 least once every 3 years the Secretary shall remind participants in writing
 of their inclusion in the program.
 `(d) Of amounts reserved under section 451(a)(3)(A) to carry out the
 provisions of this section, the Committee shall use--
 `(1) to support State occupational information coordinating committees for
 the purpose of operating State occupational information systems and career
 information delivery systems, the greater of--
 `(A) an amount equal to the aggregate amount appropriated or otherwise made
 available for that purpose for the fiscal year 1990; or
 `(B) an amount equal to 75 percent of the aggregate amount appropriated or
 otherwise made available to carry out this section; and
 `(2) for purposes of carrying out subsection (c)--
 `(A) an amount equal to not less than 10 percent of the amounts available
 to carry out this section; or
 `(B) if the amount remaining after carrying out paragraph (1) is insufficient
 to provide the amount described in subparagraph (A), such remaining amount.'.
SEC. 409. INFORMATION BASE FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION DATA SYSTEM.
 Section 423 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 423. INFORMATION BASE FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION DATA SYSTEM.
 `(a) INFORMATION RELATING TO STUDENTS WITH HANDICAPS- (1) The Secretary
 shall ensure that adequate information on access to vocational education by
 secondary school students with handicaps is maintained in the data system
 established under section 421.
 `(2) The system shall include detailed information obtained through scientific
 sample surveys concerning--
 `(A) types of programs available; and
 `(B) enrollment of students with handicaps by--
 `(i) type of program;
 `(ii) type of instructional setting; and
 `(iii) type of handicap.
 `(3)(A) The General Accounting Office shall conduct a 3-year study, using
 representative samples, of the effects of the amendments made by title II of
 the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Amendments
 of 1990 on the access to and participation in vocational education of
 disadvantaged students, students with handicaps, students of limited English
 proficiency, and, to the extent practicable, foster children.
 `(B) The study shall include consideration of issues such as--
 `(i) the proportion of students described in paragraph (1) who are enrolled
 in vocational education programs during the first 3 program years to which
 the amendments made by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology
 Education Amendments Act of 1990 apply compared to the program year preceding
 such years;
 `(ii) the number of such students who enroll in vocational education programs
 for the first time during the period of study;
 `(iii) the number of such students who participate in vocational education
 programs that lead to an occupational skill or job placement;
 `(iv) the extent to which academics are incorporated with vocational
 education courses;
 `(v) the manner in which vocational education programs have addressed special
 needs of such students for supportive services, material, and equipment;
 `(vi) the comparability of vocational education services provided to such
 students with vocational education services provided to students who are
 not members of special populations; and
 `(vii) in the case of students with handicaps--
 `(I) the types and severity of handicaps of such students who enroll in
 vocational education programs;
 `(II) the extent to which such students participate in the same vocational
 education programs as students who do not have handicaps;
 `(III) the number of such students with individualized education programs
 developed under section 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped
 Act who have individualized education programs that include vocational
 education programs;
 `(IV) the extent to which special personnel such as special education
 personnel or vocational rehabilitation personnel assist in the selection
 and provision of vocational education programs with respect to such students;
 `(V) the extent to which such students and their parents are involved in
 selecting vocational education courses and programs;
 `(VI) the number of such students who have returned to secondary vocational
 education programs after dropping out of or formally exiting the local
 educational system; and
 `(VII) the ages of such students.
 `(C) In conducting the study required by this subsection, the General
 Accounting Office may consider and include information from other sources
 to address or augment the issues considered in the study.
 `(4) The General Accounting Office shall submit to the appropriate committees
 of the Congress a report describing the results of the study conducted as
 required by this subsection not later than July 1, 1995.
 `(b) INFORMATION RELATING TO STUDENTS WHO HAVE COMPLETED SECONDARY SCHOOL-
 (1) To carry out the provisions of this section, in accordance with the
 provisions of section 3 of the Technology Assessment Act of 1972, the Office
 of Technology Assessment shall conduct an assessment of a sample of tests
 designed to be administered to students who have completed secondary school
 to assess the level of technical knowledge relating to broad technical
 fields possessed by such students. The assessment shall include at least--
 `(A) an assessment of the quality, validity, reliability, and predictive
 capability of widely used vocational aptitude and competency tests and
 assessments, with particular attention to--
 `(i) the use of such assessments with respect to students who are members
 of special populations; and
 `(ii) patterns of actual usage with respect to entry into vocational
 education programs, promotion within such programs, completion of such
 programs, and placement in appropriate positions;
 `(B) identification of trends in such tests and assessments, including any
 relationship to vocational education curricula; and
 `(C) identification of policy options for--
 `(i) strengthening development and quality of such tests and assessments to
 ensure that such tests and assessments are conducted in an impartial manner
 that does not penalize students on the basis of race, sex, or economic
 background; and
 `(ii) means of sustaining competition in the development of such tests
 and assessments.
 `(2) The results of the study required by paragraph (1) shall be reported
 to the appropriate committees of the Congress not later than September
 30, 1994.'.
SEC. 410. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 Part C of title IV of the Act is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 424. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 `(a) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION AT REASONABLE COST- The Secretary shall
 take such action as may be necessary to secure at reasonable cost the
 information required by this part. To ensure reasonable cost, the Secretary,
 in consultation with the Vocational Education Task Force, the National Center
 for Education Statistics, the Office of Vocational and Adult Education, and
 the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee shall determine
 the methodology to be used and the frequency with which information is to
 be collected.
 `(b) COOPERATION OF STATES- All States receiving assistance under this Act
 shall cooperate with the Secretary in implementing the information systems
 developed pursuant to this part.'.
SEC. 411. REPEAL OF NATIONAL COUNCIL ON VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part D of title IV of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2431) is repealed.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents contained in section 1 of the
 Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by striking the items relating to part
 D and to section 431.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
 take effect on October 1, 1991.
SEC. 412. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 Section 451 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 451. DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) and section
 504, of the amounts available pursuant to section 3(e)(1) for any fiscal
 year for this title--
 `(1) 30 percent shall be available for part A, relating to research and
 development, of which 90 percent shall be available for section 404,
 relating to the National Center or Centers;
 `(2) 30 percent shall be available for part B, relating to demonstration
 programs; and
 `(3) 40 percent shall be available for part C, relating to vocational
 education and occupational information data systems, of which not less than--
 `(A) 22 percent of the total amount appropriated pursuant to the authority
 of section 3(e) shall be available to carry out section 422, relating to
 the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee;
 `(B) 8 percent shall be available to carry out the provisions of section 421,
 relating to data systems; and
 `(C) 10 percent shall be available to carry out the provisions of section
 402(c), relating to the National Network for Curriculum Coordination.
 `(b) HOLD HARMLESS- Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a),
 the amounts available to carry out the activities described in subsection
 (a)(1) and in subsections (a)(3)(A) and (a)(3)(C) shall be at least equal
 to the amounts made available for such activities in the fiscal year 1990.'.
TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. FEDERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF MATCHING REQUIREMENTS AND TRANSFER OF STATE PROVISION-
 (1) Sections 502, 504, and 505 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2462, 2465, 2466)
 are repealed.
 (2) Sections 503 and 506 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2463, 2466), are redesignated
 as sections 502 and 503, respectively.
 (b) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- The first sentence of section 502(b) of the
 Act (as redesignated by subsection (a)(2) of this section) is amended by
 inserting after `this section' the following: `(with respect to not more
 than 5 percent of expenditures by any State educational agency)'.
 (c) ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS- Title V of the Act (20 U.S.C. 2461
 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating part B as part C; and
 (2) by inserting after section 503 the following:
`SEC. 504. REGIONAL MEETINGS AND NEGOTIATED RULEMAKING.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) The Secretary shall convene regional meetings to obtain
 public involvement in the development of proposed regulations under the Carl
 D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of
 1990. Such meetings shall include individuals and representatives of groups
 involved in vocational education programs under this Act, such as Federal,
 State, tribal and local administrators, parents, teachers, members of local
 boards of education and special populations.
 `(2) During each meeting described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
 provide for a comprehensive discussion and exchange of information on at
 least 4 key issues, selected by the Secretary, concerning implementation
 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 Amendments of 1990. The Secretary shall take into account information
 received at such meetings in the development of proposed regulations,
 and shall publish a summary of such information in the Federal Register
 together with such proposed regulations.
 `(b) DRAFT REGULATIONS- After holding regional meetings and before publishing
 proposed regulations in the Federal Register, the Secretary shall prepare
 draft regulations under this Act and submit regulations on at least 2 key
 issues to a negotiated rulemaking process. The Secretary shall follow the
 guidance provided in the Administrative Conference of the United States
 in Recommendation 82-4 and 85-5, `Procedures for Negotiating Proposed
 Regulations' (1 C.F.R. 305.82-4 and 85-5) and any successor recommendation,
 regulation, or law. Participants in the negotiation process shall be
 chosen by the Secretary from among participants in the regional meetings,
 representing the groups described in subsection (a)(1) and all geographic
 regions. At least 10 participants, 1 from each of the regions served by a
 regional office established pursuant to section 416 of the Department of
 Education Organization Act, representing the groups described in subsection
 (a)(1), shall be chosen under the preceding sentence. The negotiation process
 shall be conducted in a timely manner in order that final regulations may
 be issued by the Secretary within the 240-day period required by section
 431(g) of the General Education Provisions Act.
 `(c) SPECIAL RULE- If a regulation must be issued within a very limited
 time period to assist States and eligible recipients with the operation
 of a program under this Act, the Secretary may issue a regulation without
 fulfilling the requirements of subsections (a) and (b), but shall immediately
 convene regional meetings to review the regulation before such regulation
 is issued in final form.
 `(d) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT- The Federal Advisory
 Committee Act shall not apply to activities carried out under this section.
 `(e) RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS- For the fiscal year 1991, the Secretary may
 reserve for purposes of carrying out subsection (b) not more than $300,000
 from amounts made available under section 3(e).
`SEC. 505. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO REPORTS, PLANS, AND REGULATIONS.
 `The General Accounting Office shall, upon the request of any Member of
 the Congress--
 `(1) investigate the circumstances of any failure by the Secretary to submit
 any report or research finding or issue any regulation required by this Act
 by the time specified in the provision of this Act requiring the submission
 of such report or research finding or issuance of such regulation; and
 `(2) submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate
 a report containing the results of any investigation conducted pursuant to
 paragraph (1), including an identification of the cause of delay and of
 the office or offices of the Department of Education or of the Office of
 Management and Budget responsible for the delay.
`SEC. 506. FEDERAL LAWS GUARANTEEING CIVIL RIGHTS.
 `Nothing in this Act shall be construed to be inconsistent with appropriate
 Federal laws guaranteeing civil rights.
`SEC. 507. STUDENT ASSISTANCE AND OTHER FEDERAL PROGRAMS.
 `(a) ATTENDANCE COSTS NOT TREATED AS INCOME OR RESOURCES- The portion of any
 student financial assistance received under this Act that is made available
 for attendance costs described in subsection (b) shall not be considered
 as income or resources in determining eligibility for assistance under any
 other program funded in whole or in part with Federal funds.
 `(b) ATTENDANCE COSTS- The attendance costs described in this subsection are--
 `(1) tuition and fees normally assessed a student carrying the same academic
 workload as determined by the institution, and including costs for rental or
 purchase of any equipment, materials, or supplies required of all students
 in the same course of study; and
 `(2) an allowance for books, supplies, transportation, dependent care, and
 miscellaneous personal expenses for a student attending the institution on
 at least a half-time basis, as determined by the institution.
`SEC. 508. FEDERAL MONITORING.
 `The Secretary shall make every effort to provide adequate monitoring of
 compliance by recipients of assistance under this Act with the provisions of
 this Act. Such monitoring activities shall be developed by the Secretary in
 consultation with parents, students, and advocacy organizations, and shall--
 `(1) consider items such as whether the provisions of the State plan are
 being fully implemented;
 `(2) consider items such as whether the State board's monitoring of local
 recipients of assistance under this Act is adequate to assure full compliance
 with the provisions of this Act by such recipients;
 `(3) consider items such as whether the State-level coordinators for
 individuals who are members of special populations are able to review the
 local plans for serving such individuals;
 `(4) consider items such as whether the other State responsibilities under
 this Act are being implemented; and
 `(5) provide for input from students, parents, teachers, and special
 populations in the States.
`PART B--STATE ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
`SEC. 511. JOINT FUNDING.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Funds made available to States under this Act may
 be used to provide additional funds under an applicable program if--
 `(1) such program otherwise meets the requirements of this Act and the
 requirements of the applicable program;
 `(2) such program serves the same individuals that are served under this Act;
 `(3) such program provides services in a coordinated manner with services
 provided under this Act; and
 `(4) such funds would be used to supplement, and not supplant, funds provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(b) APPLICABLE PROGRAMS- For the purposes of this section, the term
 `applicable program' means any program under any of the following provisions
 of law:
 `(1) Section 123, title II, and title III of the Job Training Partnership Act.
 `(2) The Wagner-Peyser Act.
 `(c) ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS- Notwithstanding the provisions of section 504,
 the Secretary shall develop regulations to be issued under this section in
 consultation with the Secretary of Labor.
 `(d) USE OF FUNDS AS MATCHING FUNDS- For the purposes of this section,
 the term `additional funds' includes the use of funds as matching funds.
`SEC. 512. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF REVIEW COMMITTEE- Except as provided in subsection (b),
 before any State publishes any proposed or final State rule or regulation
 pursuant to this Act, the State shall establish and convene a State
 Committee of Practitioners (in this section referred to as the `Committee')
 for the purpose of reviewing such rule or regulation. The Committee shall be
 selected from nominees solicited from State organizations representing school
 administrators, teachers, parents, members of local boards of education,
 and appropriate representatives of institutions of higher education. The
 Committee shall consist of--
 `(1) representatives of local educational agencies, who shall constitute
 a majority of the members of the Committee;
 `(2) school administrators;
 `(3) teachers;
 `(4) parents;
 `(5) members of local boards of education;
 `(6) representatives of institutions of higher education; and
 `(7) students.
 `(b) LIMITED EXCEPTION- In an emergency, where a regulation must be issued
 within a very limited time period to assist eligible recipients with the
 operation of a program, the State may issue a regulation without fulfilling
 the requirements of subsection (a), but shall immediately convene the
 Committee to review the regulation before it is issued in final form.
`SEC. 513. IDENTIFICATION OF STATE-IMPOSED REQUIREMENTS.
 `Any State rule or policy imposed on the administration or operation of
 programs funded by this Act, including any rule or policy based on State
 interpretation of any Federal law, regulation, or guideline, shall be
 identified as a State imposed requirement.
`SEC. 514. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO INDUCE OUT-OF-STATE RELOCATION
OF BUSINESSES.
 `No funds provided under this Act shall be used for the purpose of directly
 providing incentives or inducements to an employer to relocate a business
 enterprise from 1 State to another State if such relocation would result in
 a reduction in the number of jobs available in the State where the business
 enterprise is located before such incentives or inducements are offered.
`SEC. 515. STATE ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
 `For each fiscal year for which a State receives assistance under this Act,
 the State shall provide from non-Federal sources for costs the State incurs
 for administration of programs under this Act an amount that is not less
 than the amount provided by the State from non-Federal sources for such
 costs for the preceding fiscal year.
`SEC. 516. ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- (1)(A) Funds made available under title II shall be used
 to supplement, and to the extent practicable increase the amount of State
 and local funds that would in the absence of such Federal funds be made
 available for the uses specified in the application, and in no case supplant
 such State or local funds.
 `(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), funds made available under title II
 may be used to pay for the costs of vocational education services required in
 an individualized education plan developed pursuant to sections 612(4) and
 614(a)(5) of the Education of the Handicapped Act, in a manner consistent
 with section 614(a)(1) of such Act, and services necessary to meet the
 requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 with respect
 to ensuring equal access to vocational education.
 `(2) No State shall take into consideration payments under this Act in
 determining, for any educational agency or institution in that State,
 the eligibility for State aid, or the amount of State aid, with respect to
 public education within the State.
 `(b) LIMITATION- Any project assisted with funds made available under
 title II shall be of sufficient size, scope, and quality to give reasonable
 promise of meeting the vocational education needs of the students involved
 in the project.
 `(c) PERMISSIBLE SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES- (1) Vocational education services
 and activities authorized in title II may include work-site programs such as
 cooperative vocational education, programs with community-based organizations,
 work-study, and apprenticeship programs.
 `(2) Vocational education services and activities described in title II
 may include placement services for students who have successfully completed
 vocational education programs.
 `(3) Vocational education services and activities described in title II
 may include programs which involve students in addressing the needs of
 the community in the production of goods or services which contribute to
 the community's welfare or which involve the students with other community
 development planning, institutions, and enterprises.
 `(d) ACADEMIC CREDIT- Each State board receiving financial assistance under
 title II may consider granting academic credit for vocational education
 courses which integrate core academic competencies.'.
SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 521 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 521. DEFINITIONS.
 `As used in this Act:
 `(1) The term `administration' means activities of a State necessary for the
 proper and efficient performance of its duties under this Act, including
 supervision, but does not include curriculum development activities,
 personnel development, or research activities.
 `(2) The term `all aspects of the industry' means strong experience in, and
 understanding of, all aspects of the industry the students are preparing to
 enter, including planning, management, finances, technical and production
 skills, underlying principles of technology, labor issues, and health
 and safety.
 `(3) The term `apprenticeship training program' means a program registered
 with the Department of Labor or the State apprenticeship agency in accordance
 with the Act of August 16, 1937, commonly known as the National Apprenticeship
 Act, which is conducted or sponsored by an employer, a group of employers,
 or a joint apprenticeship committee representing both employers and a
 union, and which contains all terms and conditions for the qualification,
 recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices.
 `(4) The term `area vocational education school' means--
 `(A) a specialized high school used exclusively or principally for the
 provision of vocational education to individuals who are available for
 study in preparation for entering the labor market;
 `(B) the department of a high school exclusively or principally used for
 providing vocational education in not less than 5 different occupational
 fields to individuals who are available for study in preparation for entering
 the labor market;
 `(C) a technical institute or vocational school used exclusively or
 principally for the provision of vocational education to individuals who
 have completed or left high school and who are available for study in
 preparation for entering the labor market; or
 `(D) the department or division of a junior college, community college or
 university operating under the policies of the State board and which provides
 vocational education in not less than 5 different occupational fields leading
 to immediate employment but not necessarily leading to a baccalaureate degree,
 if, in the case of a school, department, or division described in subparagraph
 (C) or this subparagraph, it admits as regular students both individuals
 who have completed high school and individuals who have left high school.
 `(5) The term `career guidance and counseling' means programs--
 `(A) which pertain to the body of subject matter and related techniques and
 methods organized for the development in individuals of career awareness,
 career planning, career decisionmaking, placement skills, and knowledge
 and understanding of local, State, and national occupational, educational,
 and labor market needs, trends, and opportunities; and
 `(B) which assist such individuals in making and implementing informed
 educational and occupational choices.
 `(6) The term `community-based organization' means any such organization
 of demonstrated effectiveness described in section 4(5) of the Job Training
 Partnership Act.
 `(7) The term `construction' includes construction of new buildings and
 acquisition, and expansion, remodeling, and alternation of existing buildings,
 and includes site grading and improvement and architect fees.
 `(8) The term `cooperative education' means a method of instruction of
 vocational education for individuals who, through written cooperative
 arrangements between the school and employers, receive instruction, including
 required academic courses and related vocational instruction by alternation
 of study in school with a job in any occupational field. Such alternation
 shall be planned and supervised by the school and employers so that each
 contributes to the student's education and to his or her employability. Work
 periods and school attendance may be on alternate half days, full days,
 weeks, or other periods of time in fulfilling the cooperative program.
 `(9) The term `criminal offender' means any individual who is charged
 with or convicted of any criminal offense, including a youth offender or
 a juvenile offender.
 `(10) The term `correctional institution' means any--
 `(A) prison,
 `(B) jail,
 `(C) reformatory,
 `(D) work farm,
 `(E) detention center, or
 `(F) halfway house, community-based rehabilitation center, or any other
 similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of
 criminal offenders.
 `(11) The term `Council' means the National Council on Vocational Education.
 `(12) The term `curriculum materials' means instructional and related or
 supportive material, including materials using advanced learning technology,
 in any occupational field which is designed to strengthen the academic
 foundation and prepare individuals for employment at the entry level or to
 upgrade occupational competencies of those previously or presently employed
 in any occupational field, and appropriate counseling and guidance material.
 `(13) The term `disadvantaged' means individuals (other than individuals
 with handicaps) who have economic or academic disadvantages and who require
 special services and assistance in order to enable such individuals to succeed
 in vocational education programs. Such term includes individuals who are
 members of economically disadvantaged families, migrants, individuals of
 limited English proficiency and individuals who are dropouts from, or who
 are identified as potential dropouts from, secondary school.
 `(14) The term `displaced homemaker' means an individual who--
 `(A) is an adult; and
 `(B)(i) has worked as an adult primarily without remuneration to care for
 the home and family, and for that reason has diminished marketable skills;
 `(ii) has been dependent on public assistance or on the income of a relative
 but is no longer supported by such income;
 `(iii) is a parent whose youngest dependent child will become ineligible
 to receive assistance under the program for aid to families with dependent
 children under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act within 2 years
 of the parent's application for assistance under this Act; or
 `(iv) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in
 obtaining any employment or suitable employment, as appropriate, or
 `(C) is described in subparagraph (A) or (B) and is a criminal offender.
The Secretary may not prescribe the manner in which the States will comply
with the application of the definition contained in this paragraph.
 `(15) The term `economically disadvantaged family or individual' means such
 families or individuals who are determined by the Secretary to be low-income
 according to the latest available data from the Department of Commerce.
 `(16) Except as otherwise provided, the term `eligible recipient' means
 a local educational agency, an area vocational education school, an
 intermediate educational agency, a postsecondary educational institution,
 a State corrections educational agency, or an eligible institution (as such
 term is defined in section 232(d)(1)).
 `(17) The term `general occupational skills' means experience in and
 understanding of all aspects of the industry the student is preparing to
 enter, including planning, management, finances, technical and production
 skills, underlying principles of technology, labor and community issues,
 and health, safety, and environmental issues.
 `(18) The term `high technology' means state-of-the-art computer,
 microelectronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, laser, nuclear, chemical,
 telecommunication, and other technologies being used to enhance productivity
 in manufacturing, communication, transportation, agriculture, mining, energy,
 commercial, and similar economic activity, and to improve the provision of
 health care.
 `(19) The term `individual with handicaps' means any individual who is an
 individual with any disability (as defined in section 3(2) of the Americans
 With Disabilities Act of 1990).
 `(20) The term `intermediate educational agency' means a combination
 of school districts or counties (as defined in section 1471(5) of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965) as are recognized in a
 State as an administrative agency for such State's vocational or technical
 education schools or for vocational programs within its public elementary
 or secondary schools. Such term includes any other public institution or
 agency having administrative control and direction over a public elementary
 or secondary school.
 `(21) The term `limited English proficiency' has the meaning given such term
 in section 703(a)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
 `(22) The term `local educational agency' means a board of education or
 other legally constituted local school authority having administrative
 control and direction of public elementary or secondary schools in a city,
 county, township, school district, or political subdivision in a State,
 or any other public educational institution or agency having administrative
 control and direction of a vocational education program. For the purposes
 of sections 114, 115, 116, 117, and 240, such term shall include a State
 corrections educational agency.
 `(23) The term `postsecondary educational institution' means an institution
 legally authorized to provide postsecondary education within a State,
 a Bureau of Indian Affairs controlled postsecondary institution, or any
 postsecondary educational institution operated by or on behalf of any Indian
 tribe which is eligible to contract with the Secretary of the Interior for
 the administration of programs under the Indian Self-Determination Act or
 under the Act of April 16, 1934.
 `(24) The term `preparatory services' means services, programs, or activities
 designed to assist individuals who are not enrolled in vocational education
 programs in the selection of, or preparation for participation in, an
 appropriate vocational education or training program, such as--
 `(A) services, programs, or activities related to outreach to or recruitment
 of potential vocational education students;
 `(B) career counseling and personal counseling;
 `(C) vocational assessment and testing; and
 `(D) other appropriate services, programs, or activities.
 `(25) The term `private vocational training institution' means a business
 or trade school, or technical institution or other technical or vocational
 school, in any State, which--
 `(A) admits as regular students only persons who have completed or left
 elementary or secondary school and who have the ability to benefit from
 the training offered by such institution;
 `(B) is legally authorized to provide, and provides within that State,
 a program of postsecondary vocational or technical education designed to
 fit individuals for useful employment in recognized occupations;
 `(C) has been in existence for 2 years or has been specially accredited
 by the Secretary as an institution meeting the other requirements of this
 subsection; and
 `(D) is accredited--
 `(i) by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association listed
 by the Secretary pursuant to this clause;
 `(ii) if the Secretary determines that there is no nationally recognized
 accrediting agency or association qualified to accredit schools of a
 particular category, by a State agency listed by the Secretary pursuant to
 this clause; or
 `(iii) if the Secretary determines that there is no nationally recognized
 or State agency or association qualified to accredit schools of a particular
 category, by an advisory committee appointed by the Secretary and composed of
 persons specially qualified to evaluate training provided by schools of that
 category, which committee shall prescribe the standards of content, scope,
 and quality which must be met by those schools and shall also determine
 whether particular schools meet those standards.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the Secretary shall publish a list of
nationally recognized accrediting agencies or associations and State agencies
which the Secretary determines to be reliable authority as to the quality
of education or training afforded.
 `(26) The term `school facilities' means classrooms and related facilities
 (including initial equipment) and interests in lands on which such facilities
 are constructed. Such term shall not include any facility intended primarily
 for events for which admission is to be charged to the general public.
 `(27) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Education.
 `(28) The term `small business' means for-profit enterprises employing 500
 or fewer employees.
 `(29) The term `sequential course of study' means an integrated series
 of courses which are directly related to the educational and occupational
 skills preparation of individuals for jobs, or preparation for postsecondary
 education.
 `(30) The term `single parent' means an individual who--
 `(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and
 `(B)(i) has a minor child or children for which the parent has either
 custody or joint custody; or
 `(ii) is pregnant.
 `(31) The term `special populations' includes individuals with handicaps,
 educationally and economically disadvantaged individuals (including foster
 children), individuals of limited English proficiency, individuals who
 participate in programs designed to eliminate sex bias, and individuals in
 correctional institutions.
 `(32) The term `specific job training' means training and education for skills
 required by the employer that provides the individual student with the ability
 to obtain employment and to adapt to the changing demands of the workplace.
 `(33) The term `State' includes, in addition to the several States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
 Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (until the
 Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect pursuant to section
 101(a) of Public Law 99-658).
 `(34) The term `State board' means a State board designated or created by
 State law as the sole State agency responsible for the administration of
 vocational education, or for supervision of the administration of vocational
 education in the State.
 `(35) The term `State corrections educational agency' means the State agency
 or agencies responsible for carrying out corrections education programs in
 the State.
 `(36) The term `State council' means the State council on vocational
 education established in accordance with section 112.
 `(37) The term `State educational agency' means the State board of education
 or other agency or officer primarily responsible for the State supervision
 of public elementary or secondary schools, or, if there is no such officer
 or agency, an officer or agency designated by the Governor or by State law.
 `(38) The term `supplementary services' means curriculum modification,
 equipment modification, classroom modification, supportive personnel,
 and instructional aids and devices.
 `(39) The term `technology education' means an applied discipline designed
 to promote technological literacy which provides knowledge and understanding
 of the impacts of technology including its organizations, techniques, tools
 and skills to solve practical problems and extend human capabilities in
 areas such as construction, manufacturing, communication, transportation,
 power and energy.
 `(40) The term `tribally controlled community college' means an institution
 which receives assistance under the Tribally Controlled Community College
 Assistance Act of 1976 or the Navajo Community College Act.
 `(41) The term `vocational education' means organized educational programs
 offering a sequence of courses which are directly related to the preparation
 of individuals in paid or unpaid employment in current or emerging occupations
 requiring other than a baccalaureate or advanced degree. Such programs shall
 include competency-based applied learning which contributes to an individual's
 academic knowledge, higher-order reasoning, and problem-solving skills,
 work attitudes, general employability skills, and the occupational-specific
 skills necessary for economic independence as a productive and contributing
 member of society. Such term also includes applied technology education.
 `(42) The term `vocational student organizations' means those organizations
 for individuals enrolled in vocational education programs which engage
 in activities as an integral part of the instructional program. Such
 organizations may have State and national units which aggregate the work
 and purposes of instruction in vocational education at the local level.'.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS
PART A--CORRECTIONAL EDUCATION
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Office of Correctional Education Act of 1990'.
SEC. 602. CORRECTIONAL EDUCATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title II of the Department of Education Organization Act
 is amended by--
 (1) repealing section 213;
 (2) redesignating section 214 as section 215; and
 (3) inserting the following new section 214 after section 212:
`OFFICE OF CORRECTIONAL EDUCATION
 `SEC. 214. (a)  FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 `(1) education is important to, and makes a significant contribution to,
 the readjustment of incarcerated individuals to society; and
 `(2) there is a growing need for immediate action by the Federal Government
 to assist State and local educational programs for criminal offenders in
 correctional institutions.
 `(b) STATEMENT OF PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this title to encourage
 and support educational programs for criminal offenders in correctional
 institutions.
 `(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE- The Secretary of Education shall establish
 within the Department of Education an Office of Correctional Education.
 `(d) FUNCTIONS OF OFFICE- The Secretary, through the Office of Correctional
 Education established under subsection (a) of this section, shall--
 `(1) coordinate all correctional education programs within the Department
 of Education;
 `(2) provide technical support to State and local educational agencies and
 schools funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on correctional education
 programs and curricula;
 `(3) provide an annual report to the Congress on the progress of the Office
 of Correctional Education and the status of correctional education in the
 United States;
 `(4) cooperate with other Federal agencies carrying out correctional
 education programs to ensure coordination of such programs;
 `(5) consult with, and provide outreach to, State directors of correctional
 education and correctional educators; and
 `(6) collect from States a sample of information on the number of individuals
 who complete a vocational education sequence, earn a high school degree or
 general equivalency diploma, or earn a postsecondary degree while incarcerated
 and the correlation with job placement, job retention, and recidivism.
 `(e) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `criminal offender' means any individual who is charged
 with or convicted of any criminal offense, including a youth offender or
 a juvenile offender;
 `(2) the term `correctional institution' means any--
 `(A) prison,
 `(B) jail,
 `(C) reformatory,
 `(D) work farm,
 `(E) detention center, or
 `(F) halfway house, community-based rehabilitation center, or any other
 similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of
 criminal offenders; and
 `(3) the term `State educational agency' means the State board of education
 or other agency or officer primarily responsible for the State supervision
 of public elementary and secondary schools, or, if there is no such officer
 or agency, an officer or agency designated by the Governor or by State law.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS- The table of contents contained in section 1 of
 the Department of Education Organization Act is amended by striking the
 items relating to sections 213 and 214 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 214. Office of Correctional Education.
`Sec. 215. Federal Interagency Committee on Education.'.
PART B--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 611. STUDY OF THE DUAL SYSTEM OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN THE FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF GERMANY.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The General Accounting Office (in this section referred
 to as the `Office') shall conduct a thorough study of the Dual System
 of Vocational Education in the Federal Republic of Germany, including an
 analysis of the desirability, advantages, and disadvantages of establishing
 a nationwide job apprenticeship program in the United States similar to
 the Dual System of Vocational Education in the Federal Republic of Germany.
 (b) CONTENTS- In studying the West German Dual System of Vocational Education,
 the Office shall assess--
 (1) the ability of such a system to prepare workers for the technical
 workplace;
 (2) the level of academic skills an apprentice in the Dual System acquires;
 (3) the effectiveness of combining on-the-job training with classroom
 instruction;
 (4) the participation in apprenticeships by gender and minority status;
 (5) the dropout rate of West German students;
 (6) the construction and oversight of skill certification tests;
 (7) the unemployment rate and relative wage levels of former participants;
 (8) the labor mobility of apprentices;
 (9) whether such a system has helped West Germany maintain a competitive
 workforce and a competitive edge in the world economy;
 (10) the value and productivity of apprentices to business; and
 (11) the direct and indirect costs and benefits to the country, industry,
 company, and individual that result from the Dual System of Vocational
 Education.
 (c) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED- In assessing the ability of a similar program
 to be replicated in the United States, the Office shall evaluate such
 factors as--
 (1) existing job apprenticeship programs and their ability to prepare
 workers for the technical workplace;
 (2) the future need for skilled workers and the extent to which job
 apprenticeship programs could meet such future workforce needs;
 (3) the appropriate age or grade level for students to enter job
 apprenticeship programs (such as secondary students, postsecondary students,
 or both);
 (4) the potential for such programs to reduce the dropout rate, place more
 qualified workers in the workplace, provide continuing education, including
 postsecondary opportunities, and increase the lifetime earnings of those
 who participate in such a job apprenticeship program;
 (5) the issues in obtaining labor and management utilization of skills,
 certification for employee recruitment, promotion, and other purposes,
 and issues in creating and improving such certification to reliably and
 validly reflect the changing structure of work in the skills certified;
 (6) the training wage appropriate for an apprentice;
 (7) the estimated value and productivity of apprentices to business;
 (8) the Federal, State, employer, and labor roles in regulating and funding
 such a program;
 (9) the direct and indirect costs and benefits of such a program to the
 Federal and State governments, industry, the company and the individual; and
 (10) the quality and adequacy of Federal and State data on training,
 including apprenticeships, directly or indirectly provided by employers,
 including data on the level and distribution of training by industry,
 firm size, and of labor and management employees.
 (d) DEADLINE FOR STUDY- The study required by subsection (a), together with
 comments and recommendations, shall be completed and presented to Congress
 not later than the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date
 of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 612. HIGHER EDUCATION ACT.
 Section 621 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 is repealed.
TITLE VII--EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 701. TRANSITION PROVISION.
 Upon the enactment of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology
 Education Act Amendments of 1990, each State and eligible recipient of Federal
 financial assistance under a State plan submitted pursuant to section 113
 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act may expend funds currently
 available under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act to--
 (1) conduct planning for any program or activity authorized under the Carl
 D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, including the
 development of a State plan under section 113 of such Act;
 (2) develop State and local standards and measures as required by section 115
 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act; and
 (3) conduct assessments as required by section 116 of the Carl D. Perkins
 Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.
SEC. 702. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), the amendments made
 by this Act shall take effect on July 1, 1991.
 (b) SPECIAL RULE- Sections 3, 115, 116, 504, and 512 and part H of title
 III of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 (as amended by this Act) shall take effect upon the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.