 
--H.R.4593--
H.R.4593
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To transfer to the Secretary of the Interior the administration of the
surface rights in certain lands presently within the boundaries of the San
Carlos Indian Reservation, Arizona, and managed by the Forest Service as
part of the Coronado National Forest, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `San Carlos Mineral Strip Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION.
 For the purposes of this Act, the term `San Carlos Apache Mineral Strip' means
 that portion of the San Carlos Apache Reservation which was conditionally
 ceded to the United States, as described by the Agreement dated February 25,
 1896, and ratified by the Act of June 10, 1896 (29 Stat. 360).
SEC. 3. CONFIRMATION OF BOUNDARY.
 Congress hereby affirms that the San Carlos Apache Reservation, as established
 and described by the Executive orders of November 9, 1871, and December 14,
 1872, includes all lands which lie within the San Carlos Apache Mineral
 Strip which are presently managed by the Forest Service as part of the
 Coronado National Forest. The boundary of the Coronado National Forest is
 hereby modified to exclude such lands.
SEC. 4. DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT.
 The lands referred to in section 3 which were managed by the Forest Service
 before the effective date of this Act shall be deemed to have been held in
 trust by the United States for the benefit of the San Carlos Apache Tribe
 since December 14, 1872. Nothing in this Act may be construed to establish,
 in any action brought by the San Carlos Apache Tribe, whether or not the
 tribe is entitled to payment for damages arising from the management of
 such lands by the Forest Service before the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION OF LANDS.
 All right, title, and interest in the lands referred to in section 4 shall
 hereafter--
 (1) be administered by the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (2) be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the San Carlos
 Apache Tribe.
Such lands shall be a part of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation for
all purposes.
SEC. 6. PURCHASE OF RANGE IMPROVEMENTS.
 If offered to the Secretary within 180 days after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall acquire the permanent improvements on the
 grazing allotment located on the lands referred to in section 4 which are
 subject to a grazing permit from the Forest Service on the date of enactment
 of this Act. The Secretary shall pay $122,842 for such improvements.
SEC. 7. SAVINGS PROVISION.
 Nothing in this Act shall affect or modify any valid entry or other valid
 existing rights under the mining laws of the United States.
SEC. 8. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 Sections 3, 4, and 5 of this Act shall take effect upon certification by
 the Secretary that the provisions of section 6 have been satisfied.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.