 
--H.R.3310--
H.R.3310
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriations for activities of the National Telecommunications
and
Information Administration for fiscal years 1990 and 1991.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That there is authorized to be
 appropriated for activities of the National Telecommunications and Information
 Administration $14,554,000 for fiscal year 1990 and $18,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, together with such sums as may be necessary for increases resulting
 from adjustments in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits required
 by law, and other nondiscretionary costs, for fiscal year 1991.
 SEC. 2. (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Pacific Ocean region is of strategic and economic importance to
 the  United States;
 (2) other nations, especially the Soviet Union and Japan, are seeking to
 increase their influence in this region;
 (3) because the Pacific Basin communities are geographically isolated
 and because many are relatively poor, they are in great need of quality,
 low-cost communications services to maintain contact among themselves and
 with other countries;
 (4) from 1971 until 1985, such communications needs were satisfied by the
 Pan-Pacific Educational and Cultural Experiments by Satellite Program
 (hereinafter referred to as the `PEACESAT Program') operating over the
 ATS-1 satellite of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
 (5) the ATS-1 satellite ran out of station-keeping fuel in 1985 and has
 provided only intermittent service since then;
 (6) the Act entitled `An Act to provide authorization of appropriations for
 activities of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration',
 approved November 3, 1988 (Public Law 100-584; 102 Stat. 2970), authorized
 $3,400,000 in funding during fiscal years 1988 and 1989 for re-establishing
 the communications network of the PEACESAT Program;
 (7) Congress appropriated $1,700,000 for fiscal year 1988 and $200,000 for
 fiscal year 1989 for the purposes of re-establishing the communications
 network of the PEACESAT Program;
 (8) since 1988, significant progress has been made to ensure resumption
 of this vital communications service by repairing earth terminals in the
 Pacific communities, by identifying the short-term and long-term needs
 of the residents of these communities, and by negotiating to acquire the
 use of the GOES-3 satellite owned by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
 Administration, which is expected to provide service from 1990 to 1994;
 (9) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration will
 issue a contract for the design and construction of earth terminals to
 work with the GOES-3 satellite by early 1990 that will exhaust the funds
 previously appropriated;
 (10) additional funding will be necessary for fiscal years 1990 and 1991
 to pay for the costs of operating the GOES-3 satellite, for installing the
 earth stations and training engineers to operate them, and for administering
 the program; and
 (11) additional but undetermined funding may also be necessary in fiscal
 year 1991 to begin acquiring replacement satellite capacity for the GOES-3
 satellite after it goes out of service.
 (b) It is the purpose of this section to assist in the acquisition of
 satellite communications services until viable alternatives are available
 and to provide interim funding in order that the PEACESAT Program may
 again serve the educational, medical, and cultural needs of the Pacific
 Basin  communities.
 (c)(1) The Secretary of Commerce shall expeditiously negotiate for and acquire
 satellite space segment capacity and related ground segment equipment to
 provide communications services for former users of the ATS-1 satellite of
 the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
 (2)(A) The Secretary of Commerce shall provide to the manager of the PEACESAT
 Program such funds, from appropriations authorized under subsection (d) of
 this section, as the Secretary considers necessary to manage the operation
 of the satellite communications services provided with the capacity and
 equipment acquired under this subsection.
 (B) The recipient of funds under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall
 keep such records as may reasonably be necessary to enable the Secretary
 of Commerce to conduct an effective audit of such funds.
 (C) The Secretary of Commerce and the Comptroller General of the  United
 States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access
 for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers,
 and records of such recipient that are pertinent to the funds received
 under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
 (d) There are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year
 1990 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1991 for use by the
 Secretary of Commerce in the negotiation for and acquisition of capacity
 and equipment under subsection (c)(1) of this section and the management of
 the operation of satellite communications services under subsection (c)(2)
 of this   section. Sums appropriated pursuant to this subsection may be
 used by the Secretary of Commerce to cover administrative costs associated
 with the provisions of this section.
 (e) The Secretary of Commerce shall consult with appropriate departments and
 agencies of the Federal Government, representatives of the PEACESAT Program,
 and other affected parties regarding the development of a long-term solution
 to the communications needs of the Pacific Ocean region. Within one year
 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall
 report to the Congress regarding such consultation.
 SEC. 3. (a) It is the purpose of this section to improve the ability of
 rural health providers to use communications to obtain health information
 and to consult with others concerning the delivery of patient care. Such
 enhanced communications ability may assist in--
 (1) improving and extending the training of rural health professionals; and
 (2) improving the continuity of patient care in rural areas.
 (b) The Secretary of Commerce, in conjunction with the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services, shall establish an advisory panel (hereafter in this
 section referred to as the `Panel') to develop recommendations for the
 improvement of rural health care through the collection of information
 needed by providers and the improvement in the use of communications to
 disseminate such information.
 (c) The Panel shall be composed of individuals from organizations with
 rural constituencies and practitioners from health care disciplines,
 representatives of the National Library of Medicine, and representatives
 of different health professions schools, including nurse practitioners.
 (d) The Panel may select consultants to provide advice to the Panel
 regarding the types of information that rural health care practitioners
 need, the procedures to gather and disseminate such information, and the
 types of communications equipment and training needed by rural health care
 practitioners to obtain access to such information.
 (e) Not later than 1 year after the Panel is established under subsection
 (b), the Secretary of Commerce shall prepare and submit, to the Committee
 on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Labor and
 Human Resources of the Senate and to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
 of the House of Representatives, a report summarizing the recommendations
 made by the Panel under subsection (b).
 (f) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce to
 carry out this section $1,000,000 to remain available until expended.
 SEC. 4. (a) Section 226 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47  U.S.C. 226)
 is amended by striking `30' each place it appears in subsection (b) (1)
 and (2), subsection (c)(1), and subsection (h)(1)(A) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `90'.
 (b) Section 226(b)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47  U.S.C. 226(b)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (H) by adding `and' at the end;
 (2) in subparagraph (I) by striking `; and' and inserting in lieu thereof
 a period; and
 (3) by striking subparagraph (J).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.