 
--H.R.5316--
H.R.5316
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the appointment of additional Federal circuit and district
judges,  and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
 `Judicial Improvements Act of 1990'.
TITLE I--CIVIL JUSTICE EXPENSE AND DELAY REDUCTION PLANS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The problems of cost and delay in civil litigation in any United States
 district court must be addressed in the context of the full range of demands
 made on the district court's resources by both civil and criminal matters.
 (2) The courts, the litigants, the litigants' attorneys, and the Congress
 and the executive branch, share responsibility for cost and delay in civil
 litigation and its impact on access to the courts, adjudication of cases on
 the merits, and the ability of the civil justice system to provide proper
 and timely judicial relief for aggrieved parties.
 (3) The solutions to problems of cost and delay must include significant
 contributions by the courts, the litigants, the litigants' attorneys,
 and by the Congress and the executive branch.
 (4) In identifying, developing, and implementing solutions to problems of
 cost and delay in civil litigation, it is necessary to achieve a method of
 consultation so that individual judicial officers, litigants, and litigants'
 attorneys who have developed techniques for litigation management and cost
 and delay reduction can effectively and promptly communicate those techniques
 to all participants in the civil justice system.
 (5) Evidence suggests that an effective litigation management and cost and
 delay reduction program should incorporate several interrelated principles,
 including--
 (A) the differential treatment of cases that provides for individualized
 and specific management according to their needs, complexity, duration,
 and probable litigation careers;
 (B) early involvement of a judicial officer in planning the progress of a
 case, controlling the discovery process, and scheduling hearings, trials,
 and other litigation events;
 (C) regular communication between a judicial officer and attorneys during
 the pretrial process; and
 (D) utilization of alternative dispute resolution programs in appropriate
 cases.
 (6) Because the increasing volume and complexity of civil and criminal
 cases imposes increasingly heavy workload burdens on judicial officers,
 clerks of court, and other court personnel, it is necessary to create
 an effective administrative structure to ensure ongoing consultation and
 communication regarding effective litigation management and cost and delay
 reduction principles and techniques.
SEC. 103. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE.
 (a) CIVIL JUSTICE EXPENSE AND DELAY REDUCTION PLANS- Title 28, United States
 Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 21 the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 23--CIVIL JUSTICE EXPENSE AND DELAY REDUCTION PLANS
`Sec.
`471. Requirement for a district court civil justice expense and delay
reduction plan.
`472. Development and implementation of a civil justice expense and delay
reduction plan.
`473. Content of civil justice expense and delay reduction plans.
`474. Review of district court action.
`475. Periodic district court assessment.
`476. Enhancement of judicial information dissemination.
`477. Model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan.
`478. Advisory groups.
`479. Information on litigation management and cost and delay reduction.
`480. Training programs.
`481. Automated case information.
`482. Definitions.
-` 471. Requirement for a district court civil justice expense and delay
reduction plan
 `There shall be implemented by each United States district court, in
 accordance with this title, a civil justice expense and delay reduction
 plan. The plan may be a plan developed by such district court or a model plan
 developed by the Judicial Conference of the United States. The purposes of
 each plan are to facilitate deliberate adjudication of civil cases on the
 merits, monitor discovery, improve litigation management, and ensure just,
 speedy, and inexpensive resolutions of civil disputes.
-` 472. Development and implementation of a civil justice expense and delay
reduction plan
 `(a) The civil justice expense and delay reduction plan implemented by a
 district court shall be developed or selected, as the case may be, after
 consideration of the recommendations of an advisory group appointed in
 accordance with section 478 of this title.
 `(b) The advisory group of a United States district court shall submit to
 the court a report, which shall be made available to the public and which
 shall include--
 `(1) an assessment of the matters referred to in subsection (c)(1);
 `(2) the basis for its recommendation that the district court develop a
 plan or select a model plan;
 `(3) recommended measures, rules and programs; and
 `(4) an explanation of the manner in which the recommended plan complies
 with section 473 of this title.
 `(c)(1) In developing its recommendations, the advisory group of a district
 court shall promptly complete a thorough assessment of the state of the
 court's civil and criminal dockets. In performing the assessment for a
 district court, the advisory group shall--
 `(A) determine the condition of the civil and criminal dockets;
 `(B) identify trends in case filings and in the demands being placed on
 the court's resources;
 `(C) identify the principal causes of cost and delay in civil litigation,
 giving consideration to such potential causes as court procedures and the ways
 in which litigants and their attorneys approach and conduct litigation; and
 `(D) examine the extent to which costs and delays could be reduced by a
 better assessment of the impact of new legislation on the courts.
 `(2) In developing its recommendations, the advisory group of a district
 court shall take into account the particular needs and circumstances of
 the district court, litigants in such court, and the litigants' attorneys.
 `(3) The advisory group of a district court shall ensure that its recommended
 actions include significant contributions to be made by the court, the
 litigants, and the litigants' attorneys toward reducing cost and delay and
 thereby facilitating access to the courts.
 `(d) The chief judge of the district court shall transmit a copy of the
 plan implemented in accordance with subsection (a) and the report prepared
 in accordance with subsection (b) of this section to--
 `(1) the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts;
 `(2) the judicial council of the circuit in which the district court is
 located; and
 `(3) the chief judge of each of the other United States district courts
 located in such circuit.
-` 473. Content of civil justice expense and delay reduction plans
 `(a) In formulating the provisions of its civil justice expense and delay
 reduction plan, each United States district court, in consultation with an
 advisory group appointed under section 478 of this title, shall consider and
 may include the following principles and guidelines of litigation management
 and cost and delay reduction:
 `(1) systematic, differential treatment of civil cases that tailors the
 level of individualized and case specific management to such criteria as
 case complexity, the amount of time reasonably needed to prepare the case
 for trial, and the judicial and other resources required and available for
 the preparation and disposition of the case;
 `(2) early and ongoing control of the pretrial process through involvement
 of a judicial officer in--
 `(A) assessing and planning the progress of a case;
 `(B) setting early, firm trial dates, such that the trial is scheduled to
 occur within eighteen months after the filing of the complaint, unless a
 judicial officer certifies that--
 `(i) the demands of the case and its complexity make such a trial date
 incompatible with serving the ends of justice; or
 `(ii) the trial cannot reasonably be held within such time because of the
 complexity of the case or the number or complexity of pending criminal cases;
 `(C) controlling the extent of discovery and the time for completion of
 discovery, and ensuring compliance with appropriate requested discovery in
 a timely fashion; and
 `(D) setting, at the earliest practicable time, deadlines for filing motions
 and a time framework for their disposition;
 `(3) for all cases that the court or an individual judicial officer determines
 are complex and any other appropriate cases, careful and deliberate
 monitoring through a discovery-case management conference or a series of
 such conferences at which the presiding judicial officer--
 `(A) explores the parties' receptivity to, and the propriety of, settlement
 or proceeding with the litigation;
 `(B) identifies or formulates the principal issues in contention and, in
 appropriate cases, provides for the staged resolution or bifurcation of issues
 for trial consistent with Rule 42(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;
 `(C) prepares a discovery schedule and plan consistent with any presumptive
 time limits that a district court may set for the completion of discovery
 and with any procedures a district court may develop to--
 `(i) identify and limit the volume of discovery available to avoid unnecessary
 or unduly burdensome or expensive discovery; and
 `(ii) phase discovery into two or more stages; and
 `(D) sets, at the earliest practicable time, deadlines for filing motions
 and a time framework for their disposition;
 `(4) encouragement of cost-effective discovery through voluntary exchange
 of information among litigants and their attorneys and through the use of
 cooperative discovery devices;
 `(5) conservation of judicial resources by prohibiting the consideration
 of discovery motions unless accompanied by a certification that the moving
 party has made a reasonable and good faith effort to reach agreement with
 opposing counsel on the matters set forth in the motion; and
 `(6) authorization to refer appropriate cases to alternative dispute
 resolution programs that--
 `(A) have been designated for use in a district court; or
 `(B) the court may make available, including mediation, minitrial, and
 summary jury trial.
 `(b) In formulating the provisions of its civil justice expense and delay
 reduction plan, each United States district court, in consultation with an
 advisory group appointed under section 478 of this title, shall consider
 and may include the following litigation management and cost and delay
 reduction techniques:
 `(1) a requirement that counsel for each party to a case jointly present
 a discovery-case management plan for the case at the initial pretrial
 conference, or explain the reasons for their failure to do so;
 `(2) a requirement that each party be represented at each pretrial conference
 by an attorney who has the authority to bind that party regarding all
 matters previously identified by the court for discussion at the conference
 and all reasonably related matters;
 `(3) a requirement that all requests for extensions of deadlines for
 completion of discovery or for postponement of the trial be signed by the
 attorney and the party making the request;
 `(4) a neutral evaluation program for the presentation of the legal and
 factual basis of a case to a neutral court representative selected by the
 court at a nonbinding conference conducted early in the litigation;
 `(5) a requirement that, upon notice by the court, representatives of the
 parties with authority to bind them in settlement discussions be present
 or available by telephone during any settlement conference; and
 `(6) such other features as the district court considers appropriate after
 considering the recommendations of the advisory group referred to in section
 472(a) of this title.
 `(c) Nothing in a civil justice expense and delay reduction plan relating to
 the settlement authority provisions of this section shall alter or conflict
 with the authority of the Attorney General to conduct litigation on behalf
 of the United States, or any delegation of the Attorney General.
` 474. Review of district court action
 `(a)(1) The chief judges of each district court in a circuit and the chief
 judge of the court of appeals for such circuit shall, as a committee--
 `(A) review each plan and report submitted pursuant to section 472(d)
 of this title; and
 `(B) make such suggestions for additional actions or modified actions of
 that district court as the committee considers appropriate for reducing
 cost and delay in civil litigation in the district court.
 `(2) The chief judge of a court of appeals and the chief judge of a district
 court may designate another judge of such court to perform the chief judge's
 responsibilities under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 `(b) The Judicial Conference of the United States--
 `(1) shall review each plan and report submitted by a district court pursuant
 to section 472(d) of this title; and
 `(2) may request the district court to take additional action if the Judicial
 Conference determines that such court has not adequately responded to the
 conditions relevant to the civil and criminal dockets of the court or to
 the recommendations of the district court's advisory group.
` 475. Periodic district court assessment
 `After developing or selecting a civil justice expense and delay reduction
 plan, each United States district court shall assess annually the condition of
 the court's civil and criminal dockets with a view to determining appropriate
 additional actions that may be taken by the court to reduce cost and delay
 in civil litigation and to improve the litigation management practices of
 the court. In performing such assessment, the court shall consult with an
 advisory group appointed in accordance with section 478 of this title.
` 476. Enhancement of judicial information dissemination
 `(a) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 shall prepare a semiannual report, available to the public, that discloses
 for each judicial officer--
 `(1) the number of motions that have been pending for more than six months
 and the name of each case in which such motion has been pending;
 `(2) the number of bench trials that have been submitted for more than six
 months and the name of each case in which such trials are under submission;
 and
 `(3) the number and names of cases that have not been terminated within
 three years after filing.
 `(b) To ensure uniformity of reporting, the standards for categorization or
 characterization of judicial actions to be prescribed in accordance with
 section 481 of this title shall apply to the semiannual report prepared
 under subsection (a).
` 477. Model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan
 `(a)(1) Based on the plans developed and implemented by the United States
 district courts designated as Early Implementation District Courts pursuant
 to section 103(c) of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, the Judicial
 Conference of the United States may develop one or more model civil justice
 expense and delay reduction plans. Any such model plan shall be accompanied
 by a report explaining the manner in which the plan complies with section
 473 of this title.
 `(2) The Director of the Federal Judicial Center and the Director of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts may make recommendations
 to the Judicial Conference regarding the development of any model civil
 justice expense and delay reduction plan.
 `(b) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 shall transmit to the United States district courts and to the Committees
 on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives copies of
 any model plan and accompanying report.
` 478. Advisory groups
 `(a) Within ninety days after the date of the enactment of this chapter, the
 advisory group required in each United States district court in accordance
 with section 472 of this title shall be appointed by the chief judge of
 each district court, after consultation with the other judges of such court.
 `(b) The advisory group of a district court shall be balanced and include
 attorneys and other persons who are representative of major categories of
 litigants in such court, as determined by the chief judge of such court.
 `(c) Subject to subsection (d), in no event shall any member of the advisory
 group serve longer than four years.
 `(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the United States Attorney for a
 judicial district, or his or her designee, shall be a permanent member of
 the advisory group for that district court.
 `(e) The chief judge of a United States district court may designate a
 reporter for each advisory group, who may be compensated in accordance with
 guidelines established by the Judicial Conference of the United States.
 `(f) The members of an advisory group of a United States district court and
 any person designated as a reporter for such group shall be considered as
 independent contractors of such court when in the performance of official
 duties of the advisory group and may not, solely by reason of service on or
 for the advisory group, be prohibited from practicing law before such court.
-` 479. Information on litigation management and cost and delay reduction
 `(a) Within four years after the date of the enactment of this chapter,
 the Judicial Conference of the United States shall prepare a comprehensive
 report on all plans received pursuant to section 472(d) of this title. The
 Director of the Federal Judicial Center and the Director of the Administrative
 Office of the United States Courts may make recommendations regarding such
 report to the Judicial Conference during the preparation of the report. The
 Judicial Conference shall transmit copies of the report to the United States
 district courts and to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and
 the House of Representatives.
 `(b) The Judicial Conference of the United States shall, on a continuing
 basis--
 `(1) study ways to improve litigation management and dispute resolution
 services in the district courts; and
 `(2) make recommendations to the district courts on ways to improve such
 services.
 `(c)(1) The Judicial Conference of the United States shall prepare,
 periodically revise, and transmit to the United States district courts a
 Manual for Litigation Management and Cost and Delay Reduction. The Director of
 the Federal Judicial Center and the Director of the Administrative Office of
 the United States Courts may make recommendations regarding the preparation
 of and any subsequent revisions to the Manual.
 `(2) The Manual shall be developed after careful evaluation of the plans
 implemented under section 472 of this title, the demonstration program
 conducted under section 104 of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, and
 the pilot program conducted under section 105 of the Civil Justice Reform
 Act of 1990.
 `(3) The Manual shall contain a description and analysis of the litigation
 management, cost and delay reduction principles and techniques, and
 alternative dispute resolution programs considered most effective by the
 Judicial Conference, the Director of the Federal Judicial Center, and the
 Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
` 480. Training programs
 `The Director of the Federal Judicial Center and the Director of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall develop and conduct
 comprehensive education and training programs to ensure that all judicial
 officers, clerks of court, courtroom deputies, and other appropriate court
 personnel are thoroughly familiar with the most recent available information
 and analyses about litigation management and other techniques for reducing
 cost and expediting the resolution of civil litigation. The curriculum
 of such training programs shall be periodically revised to reflect such
 information and analyses.
` 481. Automated case information
 `(a) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 shall ensure that each United States district court has the automated
 capability readily to retrieve information about the status of each case
 in such court.
 `(b)(1) In carrying out subsection (a), the Director shall prescribe--
 `(A) the information to be recorded in district court automated systems; and
 `(B) standards for uniform categorization or characterization of judicial
 actions for the purpose of recording information on judicial actions in
 the district court automated systems.
 `(2) The uniform standards prescribed under paragraph (1)(B) of this
 subsection shall include a definition of what constitutes a dismissal
 of a case and standards for measuring the period for which a motion has
 been pending.
 `(c) Each United States district court shall record information as prescribed
 pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
` 482. Definitions
 `As used in this chapter, the term `judicial officer' means a United States
 district court judge or a United States magistrate.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- (1) Except as provided in section 105 of this Act,
 each United States district court shall, within three years after the date
 of the enactment of this title, implement a civil justice expense and delay
 reduction plan under section 471 of title 28, United States Code, as added
 by subsection (a).
 (2) The requirements set forth in sections 471 through 478 of title 28,
 United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall remain in effect for
 seven years after the date of the enactment of this title.
 (c) Early Implementation District Courts-
 (1) Any United States district court that, no earlier than June 30, 1991,
 and no later than December 31, 1991, develops and implements a civil justice
 expense and delay reduction plan under chapter 23 of title 28, United
 States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be designated by the Judicial
 Conference of the United States as an Early Implementation District Court.
 (2) The chief judge of a district so designated may apply to the Judicial
 Conference for additional resources, including technological and personnel
 support and information systems, necessary to implement its civil justice
 expense and delay reduction plan. The Judicial Conference may provide such
 resources out of funds appropriated pursuant to section 106(a).
 (3) Within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this title, the
 Judicial Conference shall prepare a report on the plans developed and
 implemented by the Early Implementation District Courts.
 (4) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 shall transmit to the United States district courts and to the Committees
 on the Judiciary of the Senate and House of Representatives--
 (A) copies of the plans developed and implemented by the Early Implementation
 District Courts;
 (B) the reports submitted by such district courts pursuant to section 472(d)
 of title 28, United States Code, as added by subsection (a); and
 (C) the report prepared in accordance with paragraph (3) of this subsection.
 (d) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of chapters for part I
 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following:
471'.
SEC. 104. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) During the 4-year period beginning on January 1, 1991,
 the Judicial Conference of the United States shall conduct a demonstration
 program in accordance with subsection (b).
 (2) A district court participating in the demonstration program may also
 be an Early Implementation District Court under section 103(c).
 (b) PROGRAM REQUIREMENT- (1) The United States District Court for the
 Western District of Michigan and the United States District Court for the
 Northern District of Ohio shall experiment with systems of differentiated
 case management that provide specifically for the assignment of cases to
 appropriate processing tracks that operate under distinct and explicit rules,
 procedures, and timeframes for the completion of discovery and for trial.
 (2) The United States District Court for the Northern District of California,
 the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia,
 and the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri
 shall experiment with various methods of reducing cost and delay in civil
 litigation, including alternative dispute resolution, that such district
 courts and the Judicial Conference of the United States shall select.
 (c) STUDY OF RESULTS- The Judicial Conference of the United States, in
 consultation with the Director of the Federal Judicial Center and the
 Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, shall
 study the experience of the district courts under the demonstration program.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than December 31, 1995, the Judicial Conference of
 the United States shall transmit to the Committees on the Judiciary of
 the Senate and the House of Representatives a report of the results of the
 demonstration program.
SEC. 105. PILOT PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) During the 4-year period beginning on January 1, 1991,
 the Judicial Conference of the United States shall conduct a pilot program
 in accordance with subsection (b).
 (2) A district court participating in the pilot program shall be designated
 as an Early Implementation District Court under section 103(c).
 (b) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- (1) Ten district courts (in this section referred
 to as `Pilot Districts') designated by the Judicial Conference of the
 United States shall implement expense and delay reduction plans under
 chapter 23 of title 28, United States Code (as added by section 103(a)),
 not later than December 31, 1991. In addition to complying with all other
 applicable provisions of chapter 23 of title 28, United States Code (as
 added by section 103(a)), the expense and delay reduction plans implemented
 by the Pilot Districts shall include the 6 principles and guidelines of
 litigation management and cost and delay reduction identified in section
 473(a) of title 28, United States Code.
 (2) At least 5 of the Pilot Districts designated by the Judicial Conference
 shall be judicial districts encompassing metropolitan areas.
 (3) The expense and delay reduction plans implemented by the Pilot Districts
 shall remain in effect for a period of 3 years. At the end of that 3-year
 period, the Pilot Districts shall no longer be required to include, in
 their expense and delay reduction plans, the 6 principles and guidelines of
 litigation management and cost and delay reduction described in paragraph (1).
 (c) PROGRAM STUDY REPORT- (1) Not later than December 31, 1995, the Judicial
 Conference shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate
 and House of Representatives a report on the results of the pilot program
 under this section that includes an assessment of the extent to which costs
 and delays were reduced as a result of the program. The report shall compare
 those results to the impact on costs and delays in ten comparable judicial
 districts for which the application of section 473(a) of title 28, United
 States Code, had been discretionary. That comparison shall be based on a
 study conducted by an independent organization with expertise in the area
 of Federal court management.
 (2)(A) The Judicial Conference shall include in its report a recommendation
 as to whether some or all district courts should be required to include,
 in their expense and delay reduction plans, the 6 principles and guidelines
 of litigation management and cost and delay reduction identified in section
 473(a) of title 28, United States Code.
 (B) If the Judicial Conference recommends in its report that some or all
 district courts  be required to include such principles and guidelines in
 their expense and delay reduction plans, the Judicial Conference shall
 initiate proceedings for the prescription of rules implementing its
 recommendation, pursuant to chapter 131 of title 28, United States Code.
 (C) If in its report the Judicial Conference does not recommend an expansion
 of the pilot program under subparagraph (A), the Judicial Conference shall
 identify alternative, more effective cost and delay reduction programs that
 should be implemented in light of the findings of the Judicial Conference
 in its report, and the Judicial Conference may initiate proceedings for the
 prescription of rules implementing its recommendation, pursuant to chapter
 131 of title 28, United States Code.
SEC. 106. AUTHORIZATION.
 (a) EARLY IMPLEMENTATION DISTRICT COURTS- There is authorized to be
 appropriated not more than $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 to carry
 out the resource and planning needs necessary for the implementation of
 section 103(c).
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER 23- There is authorized to be appropriated
 not more than $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 to implement chapter 23 of
 title 28, United States Code.
 (c) DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM- There is authorized to be appropriated not
 more than $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 to carry out the provisions of
 section 104.
TITLE II--FEDERAL JUDGESHIPS
SECTION 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Federal Judgeship Act of 1990'.
SEC. 202. CIRCUIT JUDGES FOR THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate--
 (1) 2 additional circuit judges for the third circuit court of appeals;
 (2) 4 additional circuit judges for the fourth circuit court of appeals;
 (3) 1 additional circuit judge for the fifth circuit court of appeals;
 (4) 1 additional circuit judge for the sixth circuit court of appeals;
 (5) 1 additional circuit judge for the eighth circuit court of appeals; and
 (6) 2 additional circuit judges for the tenth circuit court of appeals.
 (b) TABLES- In order that the table contained in section 44(a) of title 28,
 United States Code, will, with respect to each judicial circuit, reflect
 the changes in the total number of permanent circuit judgeships authorized
 as a result of subsection (a) of this section, such table is amended to
 read as follows:
 `Circuits
--Number of
--Judges
District of Columbia
--12
First
--6
Second
--13
Third
--14
Fourth
--15
Fifth
--17
Sixth
--16
Seventh
--11
Eighth
--11
Ninth
--28
Tenth
--12
Eleventh
--12
Federal
--12.'.
SEC. 203. DISTRICT JUDGES FOR THE DISTRICT COURTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate--
 (1) 1 additional district judge for the western district of Arkansas;
 (2) 2 additional district judges for the northern district of California;
 (3) 5 additional district judges for the central district of California;
 (4) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of California;
 (5) 2 additional district judges for the district of Connecticut;
 (6) 2 additional district judges for the middle district of Florida;
 (7) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of Florida;
 (8) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of Florida;
 (9) 1 additional district judge for the middle district of Georgia;
 (10) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of Illinois;
 (11) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of Iowa;
 (12) 1 additional district judge for the western district of Louisiana;
 (13) 1 additional district judge for the district of Maine;
 (14) 1 additional district judge for the district of Massachusetts;
 (15) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of Mississippi;
 (16) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Missouri;
 (17) 1 additional district judge for the district of New Hampshire;
 (18) 3 additional district judges for the district of New Jersey;
 (19) 1 additional district judge for the district of New Mexico;
 (20) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of New York;
 (21) 3 additional district judges for the eastern district of New York;
 (22) 1 additional district judge for the middle district of North Carolina;
 (23) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of Ohio;
 (24) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of Oklahoma;
 (25) 1 additional district judge for the western district of Oklahoma;
 (26) 1 additional district judge for the district of Oregon;
 (27) 3 additional district judges for the eastern district of Pennsylvania;
 (28) 1 additional district judge for the middle district of Pennsylvania;
 (29) 1 additional district judge for the district of South Carolina;
 (30) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Tennessee;
 (31) 1 additional district judge for the western district of Tennessee;
 (32) 1 additional district judge for the middle district of Tennessee;
 (33) 2 additional district judges for the northern district of Texas;
 (34) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Texas;
 (35) 5 additional district judges for the southern district of Texas;
 (36) 3 additional district judges for the western district of Texas;
 (37) 1 additional district judge for the district of Utah;
 (38) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Washington;
 (39) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of West Virginia;
 (40) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of West Virginia;
 and
 (41) 1 additional district judge for the district of Wyoming.
 (b) EXISTING JUDGESHIPS- (1) The existing district judgeships for the
 western district of Arkansas, the northern district of Illinois, the northern
 district of Indiana, the district of Massachusetts, the western district of
 New York, the eastern district of North Carolina, the northern district of
 Ohio, and the western district of Washington authorized by section 202(b)
 of the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984 (Public Law
 98-353, 98 Stat. 347-348) shall, as of the effective date of this title,
 be authorized under section 133 of title 28, United States Code, and the
 incumbents in those offices shall hold the office under section 133 of
 title 28, United States Code, as amended by this title.
 (2)(A) The existing 2 district judgeships for the eastern and western
 districts of Arkansas (provided by section 133 of title 28, United States
 Code, as in effect on the day before the effective date of this title)
 shall be district judgeships for the eastern district of Arkansas only,
 and the incumbents of such judgeships shall hold the offices under section
 133 of title 28, United States Code, as amended by this title.
 (B) The existing district judgeship for the northern and southern districts of
 Iowa (provided by section 133 of title 28, United States Code, as in effect
 on the day before the effective date of this title) shall be a district
 judgeship for the northern district of Iowa only, and the incumbent of such
 judgeship shall hold the office under section 133 of title 28, United States
 Code, as amended by this title.
 (C) The existing district judgeship for the northern, eastern, and western
 districts of Oklahoma (provided by section 133 of title 28, United States
 Code, as in effect on the day before the effective date of this title) and
 the occupant of which has his or her official duty station at Oklahoma City
 on the date of the enactment of this title, shall be a district judgeship for
 the western district of Oklahoma only, and the incumbent of such judgeship
 shall hold the office under section 133 of title 28, United States Code,
 as amended by this title.
 (c) TEMPORARY JUDGESHIPS- The President shall appoint, by and with the
 advice and consent of the Senate--
 (1) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of Alabama;
 (2) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of California;
 (3) 1 additional district judge for the district of Hawaii;
 (4) 1 additional district judge for the central district of Illinois;
 (5) 1 additional district judge for the southern district of Illinois;
 (6) 1 additional district judge for the district of Kansas;
 (7) 1 additional district judge for the western district of Michigan;
 (8) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Missouri;
 (9) 1 additional district judge for the district of Nebraska;
 (10) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of New York;
 (11) 1 additional district judge for the northern district of Ohio;
 (12) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Pennsylvania; and
 (13) 1 additional district judge for the eastern district of Virginia.
The first vacancy in the office of district judge in each of the judicial
districts named in this subsection, occurring 5 years or more after the
effective date of this title, shall not be filled.
 (d) TABLES- In order that the table contained in section 133 of title
 28, United States Code, will, with respect to  each judicial district,
 reflect the changes in the total number of permanent district judgeships
 authorized as a result of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, such
 table is amended to read as follows:
`Districts
--Judges
7
3
3
3
8
5
3
14
6
27
8
7
8
4
15
4
11
16
11
4
3
3
2
22
3
3
5
5
2
3
5
4
4
1
13
2
7
3
10
13
15
4
7
3
6
6
5
2
3
3
4
3
17
5
4
28
15
4
4
4
3
2
11
8
3
1
6
1
6
22
6
10
7
3
9
3
5
4
5
12
18
7
10
5
2
9
4
4
7
3
5
4
2
3.'.
SEC. 204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this title, including such sums as may be
 necessary to provide appropriate space and facilities for the judicial
 positions created by this title.
SEC. 205. STUDY BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the United States shall review the
 policies, procedures, and methodologies used by the Judicial Conference of
 the United States in recommending to the Congress the creation of additional
 Federal judgeships. In conducting such review the Comptroller General shall,
 at a minimum, determine the extent to which such policies, procedures,
 and methodologies--
 (1) provide an accurate measure of the workload of existing judges;
 (2) are applied consistently to the various circuit courts of appeals and
 district courts; and
 (3) provide an accurate indicator of the need for additional judgeships.
 (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Comptroller General shall, not later than 18
 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, report the results of
 the review conducted under subsection (a) to the Committees on the Judiciary
 of the House of Representatives and the Senate. The report shall include
 such recommendations as the Comptroller General considers appropriate
 for revisions of the policies, procedures, and methodologies used by the
 Judicial Conference that were reviewed in the report.
SEC. 206. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 This title shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this title.
TITLE III--IMPLEMENTATION OF FEDERAL COURTS STUDY COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATIONS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Federal Courts Study Committee Implementation
 Act of 1990'.
SEC. 302. STUDY OF INTERCIRCUIT CONFLICTS AND STRUCTURAL ALTERNATIVES FOR
THE COURTS OF APPEALS BY FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER.
 (a) INTERCIRCUIT CONFLICTS- The Board of the Federal Judicial Center is
 requested to conduct a study and submit to the Congress a report by January 1,
 1992, on the number and frequency of conflicts among the judicial circuits
 in interpreting the law that remain unresolved because they are not heard
 by the Supreme Court.
 (b) FACTORS TO CONSIDER IN STUDY- In conducting such a study, the Center
 should consider, to the extent feasible, all relevant factors, such as
 whether the conflict--
 (1) imposes economic costs or other harm on persons engaging in interstate
 commerce;
 (2) encourages forum shopping among circuits;
 (3) creates unfairness to litigants in different circuits, as in allowing
 Federal benefits in one circuit that are denied in other circuits; or
 (4) encourages nonacquiescence by Federal agencies in the holdings of the
 courts of appeals for different circuits,
but is unlikely to be resolved by the Supreme Court.
 (c) STRUCTURAL ALTERNATIVES FOR THE COURTS OF APPEALS- The Board of the
 Federal Judicial Center is requested to study the full range of structural
 alternatives for the Federal Courts of Appeals and submit a report on the
 study to the Congress and the Judicial Conference of the United States,
 no later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 303. EFFECT OF APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AS DIRECTOR OF CERTAIN JUDICIAL
BRANCH AGENCIES.
 Section 133 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' before `The President'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(b)(1) In any case in which a judge of the United States (other than a
 senior judge) assumes the duties of a full-time office of Federal judicial
 administration, the President shall appoint, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate, an additional judge for the court on which such
 judge serves. If the judge who assumes the duties of such full-time office
 leaves that office and resumes the duties as an active judge of the court,
 then the President shall not appoint a judge to fill the first vacancy
 which occurs thereafter in that court.
 `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `office of Federal judicial
 administration' means a position as Director of the Federal Judicial
 Center, Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
 or administrative assistant to the Chief Justice.'.
SEC. 304. EXTENSION OF TERMS OF OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES.
 Section 152(a)(1) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 after the third sentence the following: `However, upon the expiration of the
 term, a bankruptcy judge may, with the approval of the judicial council of
 the circuit, continue to perform the duties of the office until the earlier
 of the date which is 180 days after the expiration of the term or the date
 of the appointment of a successor.'.
SEC. 305. APPEALS OF JUDGMENTS, ORDERS, AND DECREES OF BANKRUPTCY COURTS.
 Section 158(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively, and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
 `(2) If authorized by the Judicial Conference of the United States, the
 judicial councils of 2 or more circuits may establish a joint bankruptcy
 appellate panel comprised of bankruptcy judges from the districts within the
 circuits for which such panel is established, to hear and determine, upon the
 consent of all the parties, appeals under subsection (a) of this section.'.
SEC. 306. RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR CLAIMS COURT JUDGES.
 (a) NEW RETIREMENT SYSTEM- (1) Chapter 7 of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
` 178. Retirement of judges of the Claims Court
 `(a) A judge of the United States Claims Court who retires from office
 after attaining the age and meeting the service requirements, whether
 continuously or otherwise, of this subsection shall, subject to subsection
 (f), be entitled to receive, during the remainder of the judge's lifetime,
 an annuity equal to the salary payable to Claims Court judges in regular
 active service. The age and service requirements for retirement under this
 subsection are as follows:
Years of
`Attained Age:
Service:
65
15
66
14
67
13
68
12
69
11
70
10.
 `(b) A judge of the Claims Court who is not reappointed following the
 expiration of the term of office of such judge, and who retires upon the
 completion of such term shall, subject to subsection (f), be entitled to
 receive, during the remainder of such judge's lifetime, an annuity equal
 to the salary payable to Claims Court judges in regular active service, if--
 `(1) such judge has served at least 1 full term as judge of the Claims
 Court, and
 `(2) not earlier than 9 months before the date on which the term of office
 of such judge expired, and not later than 6 months before such date, such
 judge advised the President in writing that such judge was willing to accept
 reappointment as a judge of the Claims Court.
 `(c) A judge of the Claims Court who has served at least 5 years, whether
 continuously or otherwise, as such a judge, and who retires or is removed
 from office upon the sole ground of mental or physical disability shall,
 subject to subsection (f), be entitled to receive, during the remainder of
 the judge's lifetime--
 `(1) an annuity equal to 50 percent of the salary payable to Claims Court
 judges in regular active service, if before retirement such judge served
 less than 10 years, or
 `(2) an annuity equal to the salary payable to Claims Court judges in regular
 active service, if before retirement such judge served at least 10 years.
 `(d) A judge who retires under subsection (a) or (b) may, at or after
 such retirement, be called upon by the chief judge of the Claims Court to
 perform such judicial duties with the Claims Court as may be requested of
 the retired judge for any period or periods specified by the chief judge,
 except that in the case of any such judge--
 `(1) the aggregate of such periods in any one calendar year shall not
 (without his or her consent) exceed 90 calendar days; and
 `(2) he or she shall be relieved of performing such duties during any period
 in which illness or disability precludes the performance of such duties.
Any act, or failure to act, by an individual performing judicial duties
pursuant to this subsection shall have the same force and effect as if it
were the act (or failure to act) of a Claims Court judge in regular active
service. Any individual performing judicial duties pursuant to this subsection
shall receive the allowances for official travel and other expenses of a
judge in regular active service.
 `(e)(1) Any judge who retires under the provisions of subsection (a) or
 (b) of this section shall be designated `senior judge'.
 `(2) Any judge who retires under this section shall not be counted as a judge
 of the Claims Court for purposes of the number of judgeships authorized by
 section 171 of this title.
 `(f)(1) A judge shall be entitled to an annuity under this section if the
 judge elects an annuity under this section by notifying the Director of
 the Administrative Office of the United States Courts in writing. Such
 an election--
 `(A) may be made only while an individual is a judge of the Claims Court
 (except that in the case of an individual who fails to be reappointed as judge
 at the expiration of a term of office, such election may be made at any time
 before the day after the day on which his or her successor takes office); and
 `(B) once made, shall, subject to subsection (k), be irrevocable.
 `(2) A judge who elects to receive an annuity under this section shall not
 be entitled to receive--
 `(A) any annuity to which such judge would otherwise have been entitled
 under subchapter III of chapter 83, or under chapter 84, of title 5, for
 service performed as a judge or otherwise;
 `(B) an annuity or salary in senior status or retirement under section 371
 or 372 of this title;
 `(C) retired pay under section 7447 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
 `(D) retired pay under section 4096 of title 38.
 `(g) For purposes of calculating the years of service of an individual
 under subsections (a) and (c), only those years of service as a judge of
 the Claims Court or a commissioner of the United States Court of Claims
 shall be credited, and that portion of the aggregate number of years of
 such service that is a fractional part of 1 year shall not be credited if
 it is less than 6 months, and shall be credited if it is 6 months or more.
 `(h) An annuity under this section shall be payable at the times and in
 the same manner as the salary of a Claims Court judge in regular active
 service. Such annuity shall begin to accrue on the day following the day
 on which the annuitant's salary as a judge in regular active service ceases
 to accrue.
 `(i)(1) Payments under this section which would otherwise be made to a judge
 of the Claims Court based upon his or her service shall be paid (in whole or
 in part) by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
 Courts to another person if and to the extent expressly provided for in the
 terms of any court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation, or
 the terms of any court order or court-approved property settlement agreement
 incident to any court decree of  divorce, annulment, or legal separation. Any
 payment under this paragraph to a person bars recovery by any other person.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply only to payments made by the Director of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts after the date of receipt
 by the Director of written notice of such decree, order, or agreement,
 and such additional information as the Director may prescribe.
 `(3) As used in this subsection, the term `court' means any court of any
 State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands,
 and any Indian tribal court or court of Indian offense.
 `(j)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), any judge of the Claims Court who retires
 under this section and who thereafter in the practice of law represents
 (or supervises or directs the representation of) a client in making any
 civil claim against the United States or any agency thereof shall forfeit
 all rights to an annuity under this section for all periods beginning on
 or after the first day on which he so practices law.
 `(2) If a judge of the Claims Court who retires under this section fails
 during any calendar year to perform judicial duties required of such judge
 by subsection (d), such judge shall forfeit all rights to an annuity under
 this section for the 1-year period which begins on the first day on which
 he or she so fails to perform such duties.
 `(3) If a judge of the Claims Court who retires under this section accepts
 compensation for civil office or employment under the Government of the
 United States (other than the performance of judicial duties under subsection
 (d)), such judge shall forfeit all rights to an annuity under this section
 for the period for which such compensation is received.
 `(4)(A) If a judge makes an election under this paragraph--
 `(i) paragraphs (1) and (2) (and subsection (d)) shall not apply to such
 judge beginning on the date such election takes effect, and
 `(ii) the annuity payable under this section to such judge, for periods
 beginning on or after the date such election takes effect, shall be equal
 to the annuity to which such judge is entitled on the day before such
 effective date.
 `(B) An election under subparagraph (A)--
 `(i) may be made by a judge only if such judge meets the age and service
 requirements for retirement under subsection (a),
 `(ii) may be made only during the period during which such judge may make
 an election to receive an annuity under this section or while the judge is
 receiving an annuity under this section, and
 `(iii) shall be filed with the Director of the Administrative Office of
 the United States Courts.
Such an election, once it takes effect, shall be irrevocable.
 `(C) Any election under this paragraph shall take effect on the first day
 of the first month following the month in which the election is made.
 `(k)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (f)(1)(B), an individual who has filed
 an election under subsection (f) to receive an annuity may revoke such
 election at any time before the first day on which such annuity would
 (but for such revocation) begin to accrue with respect to such individual.
 `(2) Any revocation under this subsection shall be made by filing a notice
 thereof in writing with the Director of Administrative Office of the United
 States Courts.
 `(3) In the case of any revocation under this subsection--
 `(A) for purposes of this section, the individual shall be treated as not
 having filed an election under subsection (f) to receive an annuity,
 `(B) for purposes of section 376 of this title--
 `(i) the individual shall be treated as not having filed an election under
 section 376(a)(1), and
 `(ii) section 376(g) shall not apply, and the amount credited to such
 individual's account (together with interest at 3 percent per annum,
 compounded on December 31 of each year to the date on which the revocation
 is filed) shall be returned to such individual,
 `(C) no credit shall be allowed for any service as a judge of the Claims
 Court or as a commissioner of the United States Court of Claims unless
 with respect to such service either there has been deducted and withheld
 the amount required by chapter 83 or 84 (as the case may be) of title 5
 or there has been deposited in the Civil Service Retirement and Disability
 Fund an amount equal to the amount so required, with interest,
 `(D) the Claims Court shall deposit in the Civil Service Retirement and
 Disability Fund an amount equal to the additional amount it would have
 contributed to such Fund but for the election under subsection (f), and
 `(E) if subparagraph (D) is complied with, service on the Claims Court or
 as a commissioner of the United States Court of Claims shall be treated as
 service with respect to which deductions and contributions had been made
 during the period of service.
 `(l)(1) There is established in the Treasury a fund which shall be known
 as the `Claims Court Judges Retirement Fund'. The Fund is appropriated for
 the payment of annuities and other payments under this section.
 `(2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest, in interest bearing
 securities of the United States, such currently available portions of
 the Claims Court Judges Retirement Fund as are not immediately required
 for payments from the Fund. The income derived from these investments
 constitutes a part of the Fund.
 `(3)(A) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Claims Court Judges
 Retirement Fund amounts required to reduce to zero the unfunded liability
 of the Fund.
 `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `unfunded liability' means
 the estimated excess, determined on an annual basis in accordance with the
 provisions of section 9503 of title 31, of the present value of all benefits
 payable from the Claims Court Judges Retirement Fund, over the balance in
 the Fund as of the date the unfunded liability is determined. In making
 any determination under this subparagraph, the Comptroller General shall
 use the applicable information contained in the reports filed pursuant to
 section 9503 of title 31, with respect to the retirement annuities provided
 for in this section.
 `(C) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out this paragraph.'.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 of title 28, United
 States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`178. Retirement of judges of the Claims Court.'.
 (b) JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES- Section 376 of title 28, United States
 Code, is amended as follows:
 (1) Subsection (a)(1) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `or' at the end of subparagraph (E);
 (B) by adding `or' at the end of subparagraph (F);
 (C) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following:
 `(G) a judge of the United States Claims Court;';
 (D) by striking out `or (v)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(v)'; and
 (E) by inserting before the semicolon at the end thereof the following:
 `, or (vi) the date of the enactment of the Federal Courts Study Committee
 Implementation Act of 1990, in the case of a full-time judge of the Claims
 Court in active service on that date'.
 (2) Subsection (a)(2) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (E);
 (B) by adding `and' at the end of subparagraph (F); and
 (C) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(G) in the case of a judge of the United States Claims Court, an annuity
 paid under section 178 of this title;'.
 (3) Subsection (b) is amended in the last sentence by striking out `section
 377' each place it appears and inserting in each such place `section 178
 or 377'.
 (c) CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT SYSTEM- (1) Section 8331 of title 5, United
 States Code, is amended--
 (A) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (24);
 (B) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (25) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(26) `Claims Court judge' means a judge of the United States Claims Court
 who is appointed under chapter 7 of title 28 or who has served under section
 167 of the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982.'.
 (2) Section 8334 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting `a Claims Court judge,' after
 `Member,'; and
 (B) in subsection (c), by inserting at the end of the table the following:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 `Claims Court Judge 2 1/2    August 1, 1920, to June 30, 1926.
                     3 1/2    July 1, 1926, to June 30, 1942.
                         5    July 1, 1942, to June 30, 1948.
                         6    July 1, 1948, to October 31, 1956.
                     6 1/2    November 1, 1956, to December 31, 1969.
                         7    January 1, 1970, to September 30, 1988.
                         8    After September 30, 1988.'.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 (3) Section 8336(k) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(k) A bankruptcy judge, United States magistrate, or Claims Court judge
 who is separated from service, except by removal, after becoming 62 years
 of age and completing 5 years of civilian service, or after becoming 60
 years of age and completing 10 years of service as a bankruptcy judge,
 United States magistrate, or Claims Court judge, is entitled to an annuity.'.
 (4) Section 8339(n) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(n) The annuity of an employee who is a Claims Court judge, bankruptcy
 judge, or United States magistrate is computed, with respect to service as
 a Claims Court judge, as a commissioner of the Court of Claims, as a referee
 in bankruptcy, as a bankruptcy judge, as a United States magistrate, and as
 a United States commissioner and with respect to the military service of
 any such individual (not exceeding 5 years) creditable under section 8332
 of this title, by multiplying 2 1/2  percent of the individual's average
 pay by the years of that service.'.
 (d) THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN- (1) Subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
` 8440b. Claims Court judges
 `(a)(1) A judge of the United States Claims Court who is covered by section
 178 of title 28 may elect to contribute an amount of such individual's
 basic pay to the Thrift Savings Fund.
 `(2) An election may be made under paragraph (1) only during a period
 provided under section 8432(b) for individuals subject to this chapter.
 `(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the provisions of
 this subchapter and subchapter VII shall apply with respect to Claims Court
 judges who make contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection
 (a) of this section.
 `(2) The amount contributed by a Claims Court judge for any pay period
 shall not exceed 5 percent of basic pay for such pay period.
 `(3) No contributions shall be made under section 8432(c) of this title for
 the benefit of a Claims Court judge making contributions under subsection
 (a) of this section.
 `(4)(A) Section 8433(b) of this title applies to a Claims Court judge who
 elects to make contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection
 (a) of this section and who retires entitled to an annuity under section
 178 of title 28 (including a disability annuity under subsection (d) of
 such section).
 `(B) Section 8433(d) of this title applies to any Claims Court judge who
 elects to make contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection
 (a) of this section and who retires before becoming entitled to an annuity
 under section 178 of title 28.
 `(5) With respect to Claims Court judges to whom this section applies,
 retirement under section 178 of title 28 is a separation from service for
 purposes of this subchapter and subchapter VII.
 `(6) For purposes of this section, the terms `retirement' and `retire'
 include removal from office under section 178(c) of title 28 on the sole
 ground of mental or physical disability.
 `(7) Sums contributed pursuant to this section by Claims Court judges,
 as well as all previous contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund by those
 judges, and earnings attributable to such sums and contributions, may be
 invested and reinvested only in the Government Securities Investment Fund
 established under section 8438(b)(1)(A) of this title.
 `(8) In the case of a Claims Court judge who receives a distribution from
 the Thrift Savings Plan and who later receives an annuity under section
 178 of title 28, such annuity shall be offset by an amount equal to the
 amount which represents the Government's contribution to that person's
 Thrift Savings Account, without regard to earnings attributable to that
 amount. Where such an offset would exceed 50 percent of the annuity to
 be received in the first year, the offset may be divided equally over the
 first 2 years in which that person receives the annuity.'.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 84 of title 5, United
 States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`8440b. Claims Court judges.'.
 (e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1)(A) Section 402(1) of the
 Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act (102 Stat. 4650) is amended
 by striking out `redesignating paragraph (18)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `redesignating paragraph (19)'.
 (B) Section 604(a) of title 28, United States Code, (relating to the duties
 of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts),
 as amended pursuant to the amendment made by subparagraph (A) of this
 paragraph, is amended--
 (i) in paragraph (7) by inserting `judges of the United States Claims Court,'
 after `judges of the United States,';
 (ii) by redesignating paragraph (23) as paragraph (24); and
 (iii) by inserting after paragraph (22) the following:
 `(23) Regulate and pay annuities to judges of the United States Claims
 Court in accordance with section 178 of this title; and'.
 (2) Section 8334(i) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding
 at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a judge of the United States
 Claims Court who is covered by section 178 of title 28 shall not be subject to
 deductions and contributions to the Fund if the judge notifies the Director
 of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts of an election of a
 retirement annuity under those provisions. Upon such an election, the judge
 shall be entitled to a lump-sum credit under section 8342(a) of this title.'.
 (3) Section 8402 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) A judge of the United States Claims Court who is covered by section 178
 of title 28 shall be excluded from the operation of this chapter, other than
 subchapters III and VII of such chapter if the judge notifies the Director
 of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts of an election of
 a retirement annuity under those provisions. Upon such election, the judge
 shall be entitled to a lump-sum credit under section 8424 of this title.'.
 (f) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section
 shall apply to judges of, and senior judges in active service with, the
 United States Claims Court on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 307. APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICE.
 Section 601 of title 28, United States Code, is amended in the second sentence
 by striking out `Supreme Court' and inserting in lieu thereof `Chief Justice
 of the United States, after consulting with the Judicial Conference'.
SEC. 308. MAGISTRATES.
 (a) CONSENT TO TRIAL IN CIVIL ACTIONS- Section 636(c)(2) of title 28,
 United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking out `their right to consent to the
 exercise of' and inserting in lieu thereof `the availability of a magistrate
 to exercise'; and
 (2) by striking out the third sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following: `Thereafter, either the district court judge or the magistrate
 may again advise the parties of the availability of the magistrate, but
 in so doing, shall also advise the parties that they are free to withhold
 consent without adverse substantive consequences.'.
 (b) EXTENSION OF TERMS OF OFFICE OF MAGISTRATES- Section 631(f) of title 28,
 United States Code, is amended by striking out `60' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `180'.
SEC. 309. APPEAL OF CERTAIN DETERMINATIONS RELATING TO BANKRUPTCY CASES.
 (a) ABSTENTION DETERMINATIONS UNDER TITLE 11, UNITED STATES CODE- Section
 305(c) of title 11, United States Code, is amended by inserting before the
 period the following: `by the court of appeals under section 158(d), 1291,
 or 1292 of this title or by the Supreme Court of the United States under
 section 1254 of this title'.
 (b) ABSTENTION DETERMINATIONS UNDER TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE- The second
 sentence of section 1334(c)(2) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `or not to abstain' after `to abstain', and
 (2) by inserting the following before the period: `by the court of appeals
 under section 158(d), 1291, or 1292 of this title or by the Supreme Court
 of the United States under section 1254 of this title'.
 (c) REMAND DETERMINATIONS UNDER TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE- The second
 sentence of section 1452(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
 inserting the following before the period: `by the court of appeals under
 section 158(d), 1291, or 1292 of this title or by the Supreme Court of the
 United States under section 1254 of this title'.
SEC. 310. SUPPLEMENTAL JURISDICTION.
 (a) GRANT OF JURISDICTION- Chapter 85 of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
` 1367. Supplemental jurisdiction
 `(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) or as expressly provided
 otherwise by Federal statute, in any civil action of which the district courts
 have original jurisdiction, the district courts shall have supplemental
 jurisdiction over all other claims that are so related to claims in the
 action within such original jurisdiction that they form part of the same case
 or controversy under Article III of the United States Constitution. Such
 supplemental jurisdiction shall include claims that involve the joinder or
 intervention of additional parties.
 `(b) In any civil action of which the district courts have original
 jurisdiction founded solely on section 1332 of this title, the district
 courts shall not have supplemental jurisdiction under subsection (a) over
 claims by plaintiffs against persons made parties under Rule 14, 19, 20,
 or 24 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or over claims by persons
 proposed to be joined as plaintiffs under Rule 19 of such rules, or seeking
 to intervene as plaintiffs under Rule 24 of such rules, when exercising
 supplemental jurisdiction over such claims would be inconsistent with the
 jurisdictional requirements of section 1332.
 `(c) The district courts may decline to exercise supplemental jurisdiction
 over a claim under subsection (a) if--
 `(1) the claim raises a novel or complex issue of State law,
 `(2) the claim substantially predominates over the claim or claims over
 which the district court has original jurisdiction,
 `(3) the district court has dismissed all claims over which it has original
 jurisdiction, or
 `(4) in exceptional circumstances, there are other compelling reasons for
 declining jurisdiction.
 `(d) The period of limitations for any claim asserted under subsection (a),
 and for any other claim in the same action that is voluntarily dismissed
 at the same time as or after the dismissal of the claim under subsection
 (a), shall be tolled while the claim is pending and for a period of 30 days
 after it is dismissed unless State law provides for a longer tolling period.
 `(e) As used in this section, the term `State' includes the District of
 Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession
 of the United States.'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter
 85 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following new item:
`1367. Supplemental jurisdiction.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 civil actions commenced on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 311. VENUE.
 Section 1391 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking out `the judicial district' and all
 that follows through `arose' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(1) a judicial district where any defendant resides, if all defendants
 reside in the same State, (2) a judicial district in which a substantial
 part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred, or a
 substantial part of property that is the subject of the action is situated,
 or (3) a judicial district in which the defendants are subject to personal
 jurisdiction at the time the action is commenced';
 (2) in subsection (b), by striking out `may be brought' and all that
 follows through `law' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `may,
 except as otherwise provided by law, be brought only if (1) a judicial
 district where any defendant resides, if all defendants reside in the same
 State, (2) a judicial district in which a substantial part of the events
 or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred, or a substantial part of
 property that is the subject of the action is situated, or (3) a judicial
 district in which any defendant may be found, if there is no district in
 which the action may otherwise be brought';
 (3) in subsection (e) by striking out `or (2)' and all that follows through
 `(4)', and inserting in lieu thereof `(2) a substantial part of the events
 or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred, or a substantial part of
 property that is the subject of the action is situated, or (3)'.
SEC. 312. REMOVAL OF SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT CLAIMS.
 Section 1441(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking out `, which would be removable if sued upon alone' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `within the jurisdiction conferred by section
 1331 of this title'; and
 (2) by striking out `remand all matters not otherwise within its original
 jurisdiction' and inserting in lieu thereof `may remand all matters in
 which State law predominates'.
SEC. 313. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 111 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following:
` 1658. Time limitations on the commencement of civil actions arising under
Acts of Congress
 `Except as otherwise provided by law, a civil action arising under an Act
 of Congress enacted after the date of the enactment of this section may
 not be commenced later than 4 years after the cause of action accrues.'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the
 beginning of chapter 111 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`1658. Time limitations on the commencement of civil actions arising under
Acts of Congress.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply with
 respect to causes of action accruing on or after the date of the enactment
 of this Act.
SEC. 314. WITNESS AND JUROR FEES.
 (a) WITNESS FEES- Section 1821(b) of title 28, United States Code, is
 amended by striking out `$30' and inserting in lieu thereof `$40'.
 (b) JUROR FEES- Section 1871(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by striking out `$30' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$40';
 (2) in paragraph (2) by striking out `$5' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$10'; and
 (3) in paragraph (3) by striking out `$5' and inserting in lieu thereof `$10'.
SEC. 315. POWER OF SUPREME COURT TO DEFINE FINAL DECISION FOR PURPOSES OF
SECTION 1291 OF TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE.
 Section 2072 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following:
 `(c) Such rules may define when a ruling of a district court is final for
 the purposes of appeal under section 1291 of this title.'.
SEC. 316. EXTENSION OF LIFE OF PAROLE COMMISSION.
 For the purposes of section 235(b) of Public Law 98-473 as it relates to
 chapter 311 of title 18, United States Code, and the United States Parole
 Commission, each reference in such section to `five years' or a `five-year
 period' shall be deemed a reference to `ten years' or a `ten-year period',
 respectively.
SEC. 317. BANKRUPTCY ADMINISTRATOR PROGRAM.
 (a) EXTENSION- Section 302(d)(3) of the Bankruptcy Judges, United States
 Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554;
 28 U.S.C. 581 note) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking out `October 1, 1992' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `October 1, 2002';
 (2) in subparagraph (F)(i)(II), by striking out `October 1, 1992' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `October 1, 2002';
 (3) in subparagraph (F)(i), by striking out `October 1, 1993' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `October 1, 2003'; and
 (4) in subparagraph (F)(ii), by striking out `October 1, 1993' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `October 1, 2003'.
 (b) STANDING- A bankruptcy administrator may raise and may appear and be
 heard on any issue in any case under title 11, United States Code, but may
 not file a plan pursuant to section 1121(c) of such title.
 (c) POWER OF THE COURT- Section 302(d)(3)(A)(ii) of the Bankruptcy Judges,
 United States Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy Act of 1986, as amended
 by subsection (a), is further amended by inserting before the period at the
 end thereof the following: `, except that the amendment to section 105(a)
 of title 11, United States Code, shall become effective as of the date of the
 enactment of the Federal Courts Study Committee Implementation Act of 1990'.
SEC. 318. STUDY OF FEDERAL DEFENDER PROGRAM.
 (a) STUDY REQUIRED- The Judicial Conference of the United States shall conduct
 a study of the Federal defender program under the Criminal Justice Act of
 1964, as amended (enacting section 3006A of title 18, United States Code).
 (b) ASSESSMENT OF PROGRAM- In conducting the study, the Judicial Conference
 shall assess the effectiveness of the Federal defender program, including
 the following:
 (1) The impact of judicial involvement in the selection and compensation
 of the Federal public defenders and the independence of Federal defender
 organizations, including the establishment and termination of Federal
 defender organizations and the Federal public defender and the community
 defender options.
 (2) Equal employment and affirmative action procedures in the various
 Federal defender programs.
 (3) Judicial involvement in the appointment and compensation of panel
 attorneys and experts.
 (4) Adequacy of compensation for legal services provided under the Criminal
 Justice Act of 1964.
 (5) The quality of the Criminal Justice Act of 1964 representation.
 (6) The adequacy of administrative support for defender services programs.
 (7) Maximum amounts of compensation for attorneys with regard to appeals
 of habeas corpus proceedings.
 (8) Contempt, sanctions, and malpractice representation of panel attorneys.
 (9) Appointment of counsel in multidefendant cases.
 (10) Early appointment of counsel in general, and prior to the pretrial
 services interview in particular.
 (11) The method and source of payment of the fees and expenses of fact
 witnesses for defendants with limited funds.
 (12) The provisions of services or funds to financially eligible arrested but
 unconvicted persons for noncustodial transportation and subsistence expenses,
 including food and lodging, both prior to and during judicial proceedings.
 (c) REPORT- No later than March 31, 1992, the Judicial Conference shall
 transmit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House
 of Representatives a report on the results of the study required under
 subsection (a). The report shall include--
 (1) any recommendations for legislation that the Judicial Conference finds
 appropriate;
 (2) a proposed formula for the compensation of Federal defender program
 counsel that includes an amount to cover reasonable overhead and a reasonable
 hourly fee; and
 (3) a discussion of any procedural or operational changes that the Judicial
 Conference finds appropriate for implementation by the courts of the
 United States.
SEC. 319. AMENDMENTS TO THE ETHICS IN GOVERNMENT ACT OF 1978.
 Section 502 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as
 amended by the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a) LIMITATIONS- ' before the first sentence; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(b) SENIOR JUDGES TEACHING COMPENSATION- Any compensation for teaching
 received by a senior judge (as designated under section 294(b) of title 28,
 United States Code) approved under subsection (a)(5) of this section shall
 not be treated as outside earned income for the purpose of the limitation
 under section 501(a).'.
SEC. 320. BIENNIAL CIRCUIT JUDICIAL CONFERENCE.
 The first paragraph of section 333 of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking out `annually' and inserting
 `biennially, and may summon annually,'; and
 (2) in the last sentence--
 (A) by striking out `the United States District Court for the District of
 the Canal Zone,'; and
 (B) by striking out `and the District Court of the Virgin Islands shall also
 be summoned annually' and inserting in lieu thereof `the District Court of
 the Virgin Islands, and the District Court of the Northern Mariana Islands
 shall also be summoned biennially, and may be summoned annually,'.
SEC. 321. CHANGE OF NAME OF UNITED STATES MAGISTRATES.
 After the enactment of this Act, each United States magistrate appointed
 under section 631 of title 28, United States Code, shall be known as a United
 States magistrate judge, and any reference to any United States magistrate or
 magistrate that is contained in title 28, United States Code, in any other
 Federal statute, or in any regulation of any department or agency of the
 United States in the executive branch that was issued before the enactment
 of this Act, shall be deemed to refer to a United States magistrate judge
 appointed under section 631 of title 28, United States Code.
SEC. 322. LENGTH OF SERVICE REQUIRED FOR ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE JUDICIAL
SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES ACT.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY IN CASE OF DEATH BY ASSASSINATION- Section 376(h)(1) of
 title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
 (A) by inserting `(A)' before `after having completed'; and
 (B) by inserting after `have actually been made' the following: `, or (B)
 if the death of such judicial official was by assassination, before having
 satisfied the requirements of clause (A) if, for the period of such service,
 the deductions provided by subsection (b) or, in lieu thereof, the deposits
 required by subsection (d) have actually been made';
 (2) by redesignating existing subparagraph (A) as clause (i);
 (3) in existing subparagraph (B)--
 (A) by striking out `(B)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(ii)';
 (B) by striking out `(i)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(I)'; and
 (C) by striking out `(ii)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(II)';
 (4) in existing subparagraph (C)--
 (A) by striking out `(C)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(iii)';
 (B) in clause (i)--
 (i) by striking out `(i)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(I)';
 (ii) by striking out `subparagraph (1)(A) of this subsection' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `clause (i) of this paragraph';
 (iii) by striking out `(ii)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(II)'; and
 (iv) by striking out `(iii)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(III)'; and
 (5) by adding at the end of subsection (h) the following:
 `(6) In the case of the survivor or survivors of a judicial official to
 whom paragraph (1)(B) applies, there shall be deducted from the annuities
 otherwise payable under this section an amount equal to the amount of salary
 deductions that would have been made if such deductions had been made for
 18 months prior to the judicial official's death.'.
 (b) DEFINITION OF ASSASSINATION- Section 376(a) of title 28, United States
 Code, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (5)(C) by striking out `and' after the semicolon;
 (2) in paragraph (6) by striking out the period and inserting in lieu thereof
 `; and'; and
 (3) by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(7) `assassinated' and `assassination' mean the killing of a judicial
 official described in paragraph (1) (A), (B), (F), or (G) of this subsection
 that is motivated by the performance by that judicial official of his or
 her official duties.'.
 (c) DETERMINATION OF ASSASSINATION BY DIRECTOR- Section 376(i) of title 28,
 United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(i)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(2) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
 Courts shall determine whether the killing of a judicial official was an
 assassination, subject to review only by the Judicial Conference of the
 United States. The head of any Federal agency that investigates the killing
 of a judicial official shall provide information to the Director that would
 assist the Director in making such determination.'.
 (d) COMPUTATION OF WIDOW'S AND WIDOWER'S ANNUITY- Section 376(l)(1)(ii)
 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking out `but more than
 eighteen months,'.
 (e) REFUND OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND- Section 376(o) of title 28, United
 States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(o)';
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as subparagraphs (A),
 (B), and (C), respectively;
 (3) in subparagraph (A) as so redesignated, by inserting `subject to paragraph
 (2) of this subsection,' before `before having completed'; and
 (4) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(2) In cases in which a judicial official dies as a result of assassination
 and leaves a survivor or survivors who are entitled to receive the annuity
 benefits provided by subsection (h) or (t) of this section, paragraph (1)(A)
 of this subsection shall not apply.'.
 (f) OTHER BENEFITS- Section 376 of title 28, United States Code, is amended
 by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(u) In the case of a judicial official who is assassinated, an annuity
 shall be paid under this section notwithstanding a survivor's eligibility
 for or receipt of benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, except that the
 annuity for which a surviving spouse is eligible under this section shall
 be reduced to the extent that the total benefits paid under this section
 and chapter 81 of title 5 for any year would exceed the current salary for
 that year of the office of the judicial official.'.
 (g) EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION-
 (1) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments made by this Act
 shall apply to all judicial officials assassinated on or after May 28, 1979.
 (2) RULES FOR RETROACTIVE APPLICATION- (A) In the case of a judicial official
 who was assassinated on or after May 28, 1979, and before the date of the
 enactment of this Act, if the salary deductions provided by subsection (b)
 of section 376 of title 28, United States Code, or the deposits required by
 subsection (d) of such section, have been withdrawn pursuant to subsection
 (o) of such section, there shall be deducted from the annuities otherwise
 payable to the survivor or survivors of such judicial official, and the
 payment authorized by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, an amount equal
 to the amount so withdrawn, with interest on the amount withdrawn at 3
 percent per annum compounded on December 31 of each year.
 (B) In the case of the survivor or survivors of a judicial official to whom
 this paragraph applies who had less than 18 months of service before being
 assassinated, there shall be deducted from the annuities otherwise payable
 to the survivor or survivors of such judicial official, and the payment
 authorized by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, an amount equal to the
 amount of salary deductions that would have been made if such deductions
 been made for 18 months before the judicial official's death, plus interest
 as described in subparagraph (A).
 (C) Subject to subparagraphs (A) and (B), the survivor or survivors of a
 judicial official to whom this paragraph applies shall be entitled to the
 payment of annuities they would have received under section 376 of title
 28, United States Code, for the period beginning on the date such judicial
 official was assassinated and ending the date of the enactment of this
 Act. The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay into the Judicial Survivors'
 Annuities fund, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
 the amount of the annuities to which the survivor or survivors are entitled
 under this subparagraph.
 (3) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term--
 (A) `assassinated' has the meaning given that term in section 376(a)(7)
 of title 28, United States Code, as added by this section; and
 (B) `judicial official' has the meaning given that term in section
 376(a)(1)(A) and (B) of title 28, United States Code.
 (g) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 376 of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended as follows:
 (1) Subsection (h) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (2) by striking out `subparagraphs (1)(A) or (1)(B)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)';
 (B) in paragraph (3) by striking out `subparagraph' each place it appears
 and inserting in each such place `paragraph';
 (C) in paragraph (4)--
 (i) by striking out `subparagraph (1)(B)' each place it appears and inserting
 in each such place `paragraph (1)(ii)'; and
 (ii) by striking out `subparagraph (1)(C)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `paragraph (1)(iii)'.
 (2) Subsection (a)(5)(C) is amended by striking out `subparagraph' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `paragraph'.
SEC. 323. COMPOSITION OF JUDICIAL COUNCILS.
 (a) COMPOSITION OF COUNCILS- Section 332(a)(1) of title 28, United States
 Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) The chief judge of each judicial circuit shall call, at least
 twice in each year and at such places as he or she may designate, a meeting
 of the judicial council of the circuit, consisting of the chief judge of
 the circuit, who shall preside, and an equal number of circuit judges and
 district judges of the circuit, as such member is determined by majority
 vote of all such judges of the circuit in regular active services.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 332(a) of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended by striking out paragraph (3) and redesignating paragraphs (4)
 through (7) as paragraphs (3) through (6), respectively.
SEC. 324. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 (a) PLACE OF HOLDING COURT- (1) Section 108 of title 28, United States Code,
 is amended by striking out `and Reno' in the last sentence and inserting
 in lieu thereof `, Reno, Ely, and Lovelock'.
 (2) Section 112(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking
 out `and Utica' in the last sentence and inserting in lieu thereof `Utica,
 and Watertown'.
 (b) REVISION OF DIVISIONS OF SOUTH DAKOTA JUDICIAL DISTRICT- Section 122
 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking out `Jackson,'; and
 (2) by paragraph (4)--
 (A) by inserting `Jackson,' after `Harding,'; and
 (B) by striking out `Shannon, Washabaugh, and Washington' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `and Shannon'.
SEC. 325. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TITLE 9, UNITED STATES CODE-
 (1) The section 15 of title 9, United States Code, that is designated
 `Appeals' is amended by redesignating such section as section 16.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 1 of title 9, United
 States Code, is amended by striking out
`15. Appeals.'
and inserting in lieu thereof
`15. Inapplicability of the Act of State doctrine.
`16. Appeals.'.
 (b) TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE- Title 28, United States Code, is amended
 as follows:
 (1) Section 332(f)(1) is amended by striking out `(5 U.S.C. 5316)' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `under section 5315 of title 5'.
 (2) Section 375(a)(1) is amended by striking out `377 of title' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `377 of this title'.
 (3) Section 377 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (f) by striking out `any annuity to which' and all that
 follows through the end of the subsection and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following:
 `(1) any annuity to which such judge or magistrate would otherwise have been
 entitled under subchapter III of chapter 83, or under chapter 84 (except
 for subchapters III and VII), of title 5, for service performed as such a
 judge or magistrate or otherwise;
 `(2) an annuity or salary in senior status or retirement under section 371
 or 372 of this title;
 `(3) retired pay under section 7447 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
 `(4) retired pay under section 4096 of title 38.'; and
 (B) in subsection (h) by striking out `in or after' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `on or after'.
 (4) Section 602(b) is amended by striking out `604(a)(15)(B)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `604(a)(16)(B)'.
 (5) Section 995(a)(22) is amended by striking out `and' after the semicolon.
 (6) Section 996(b) is amended by striking out `89 (Health Insurance),
 and 91 (Conflicts of Interest)' and inserting in lieu thereof `and 89
 (Health Insurance)'.
 (7) Section 1499 is amended by inserting `and Safety' after `Hours'.
 (8) Section 1605(a)(6) is amended by striking out `State' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `state'.
 (9) Section 1610 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(6) by striking out `State' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `state'; and
 (B) in subsection (e) by striking out `State' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `state'.
 (c) OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW- (1) Section 1011 of the Judicial Improvements
 and Access to Justice Act (102 Stat. 4668) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `inserting a comma in lieu of the semicolon at the end
 thereof and adding thereafter' and inserting in lieu thereof `at the end'; and
 (B) by striking out `: Provided, That' and inserting in lieu thereof `,
 except that'.
 (2) Section 204(b)(5)(A)(ii) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice,
 and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989
 (102 Stat. 2201) is amended by striking out `whichever, occurs later,'
 and inserting in lieu thereof
  `whichever occurs later,'.
TITLE IV--JUDICIAL DISCIPLINE AND JUDICIAL REMOVAL
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Judicial Discipline and Removal Reform Act
 of 1990'.
Subtitle I--Judicial Discipline
SEC. 402. AMENDMENTS TO JUDICIAL COUNCILS REFORM AND JUDICIAL CONDUCT AND
DISABILITY ACT OF 1980.
 (a) IDENTIFICATION OF COMPLAINTS BY CHIEF JUDGE- Paragraph (1) of section
 372(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
 thereof the following: `In the interests of the effective and expeditious
 administration of the business of the courts and on the basis of information
 available to the chief judge of the circuit, the chief judge may, by written
 order stating reasons therefor, identify a complaint for purposes of this
 subsection and thereby dispense with filing of a written complaint.'.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEES- Paragraph (4) of section
 372(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `A judge appointed to a special committee under this paragraph may continue
 to serve on that committee after becoming a senior judge or, in the case
 of the chief judge of the circuit, after his or her term as chief judge
 terminates under subsection (a)(3) or (c) of section 45 of this title. If
 a judge appointed to a committee under this paragraph dies, or retires from
 office under section 371(a) of this title, while serving on the committee,
 the chief judge of the circuit may appoint another circuit or district judge,
 as the case may be, to the committee.'.
 (c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF IMPEACHMENT RECOMMENDATION- (1) Paragraph (8)
 of section 372(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following sentence: `Upon receipt of the determination and record of
 proceedings in the House of Representatives, the Clerk of the House of
 Representatives shall make available to the public the determination and
 any reasons for the determination.'.
 (2) Paragraph (14) of such section is amended--
 (A) by striking out `All' and inserting in lieu thereof `Except as provided
 in paragraph (8), all';
 (B) by striking out `unless' and inserting in lieu thereof `except to the
 extent that';
 (C) in subparagraph (B) by inserting `such disclosure is' before `authorized';
 (D) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as subparagraphs (B) and
 (C), respectively; and
 (E) by inserting the following new subparagraph (A) immediately before
 subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated):
 `(A) the judicial council of the circuit in its discretion releases a copy
 of a report of a special investigative committee under paragraph (5) to the
 complainant whose complaint initiated the investigation by that special
 committee and to the judge or magistrate whose conduct is the subject of
 the complaint;'.
 (d) IMPEACHMENT RECOMMENDATIONS WITH RESPECT TO CONVICTED JUDGES- Section
 372(c) of such title is further amended in paragraph (8)--
 (1) by inserting `(A)' after `(8)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(B) If a judge or magistrate has been convicted of a felony and has
 exhausted all means of obtaining direct review of the conviction, or the
 time for seeking further direct review of the conviction has passed and no
 such review has been sought, the Judicial Conference may, by majority vote
 and without referral or certification under paragraph (7), transmit to the
 House of Representatives a determination that consideration of impeachment
 may be warranted, together with appropriate court records, for whatever
 action the House of Representatives considers to be necessary.'.
 (e) RULES BY JUDICIAL CONFERENCE AND JUDICIAL COUNCILS- Paragraph (11) of
 section 372(c) of such title is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following: `No rule promulgated under this subsection may limit the period
 of time within which a person may file a complaint under this subsection.'.
 (f) CONCLUSION OF PROCEEDINGS BY CHIEF JUDGE- Paragraph (3)(B) of section
 372(c) of such title is amended by inserting before the period the following:
 `or that action on the complaint is no longer necessary because of intervening
 events'.
 (g) DISMISSAL OF COMPLAINTS BY JUDICIAL COUNCILS- Paragraph (6) of section
 372(c) of such title is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (B);
 (2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and
 (3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
 `(C) may dismiss the complaint; and'.
 (h) REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES AND ATTORNEYS' FEES- Section 372(c) of such
 title is further amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (16) and (17) as paragraphs (17) and (18); and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph:
 `(16) Upon the request of a judge or magistrate whose conduct is the subject
 of a complaint under this subsection, the judicial council may, if the
 complaint has been finally dismissed under paragraph (6)(C), recommend that
 the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts award
 reimbursement, from funds appropriated to the Federal judiciary, for those
 reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by that judge or
 magistrate during the investigation which would not have been incurred but
 for the requirements of this subsection.'.
 (i) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS- (1) Paragraph (7)(B) of section 372(c) of such
 title is amended--
 (A) by striking out `has engaged in conduct' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `may have engaged in conduct'; and
 (B) in clause (i) by striking out `article I' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `article II'.
 (2) Paragraph (14)(C) of such section, as redesignated by subsection
 (c)(2)(D) of this section, is amended by striking out `subject to the
 complaint' and inserting in lieu thereof `subject of the complaint'.
SEC. 403. CONTEMPT POWER FOR CIRCUIT COUNCILS.
 Section 332(d)(2) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end thereof the following: `In the case of failure to comply with an
 order made under this subsection or a subpoena issued under section 372(c)
 of this title, a judicial council or a special committee appointed under
 section 372(c)(4) of this title may institute a contempt proceeding in any
 district court in which the judicial officer or employee of the circuit who
 fails to comply with the order made under this subsection shall be ordered
 to show cause before the court why he or she should not be held in contempt
 of court.'.
SEC. 404. AMENDMENT TO OATH OF JUSTICES AND JUDGES.
 Section 453 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking out
 `according to the best of my abilities and understanding, agreeably to'
 and inserting `under'.
SEC. 405. AMENDMENT TO ETHICS IN GOVERNMENT ACT.
 Section 104(b) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 104(b))
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: `Whenever the Judicial
 Conference refers a name to the Attorney General under this subsection,
 the Judicial Conference also shall notify the judicial council of the
 circuit in which the named individual serves of the referral.'.
SEC. 406. ADVISORY COMMITTEES FOR JUDICIAL DISCIPLINE RULES.
 Section 2077(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 before the period at the end of the first sentence the following: `and,
 in the case of an advisory committee appointed by a court of appeals,
 of the rules of the judicial council of the circuit'.
SEC. 407. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by this subtitle shall take effect 90 days after the
 date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle II--National Commission on Judicial Impeachment
SEC. 408. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `National Commission on Judicial Discipline
 and Removal Act'.
SEC. 409. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There is hereby established a commission to be known as the `National
 Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal' (hereafter in this subtitle
 referred to as the `Commission').
SEC. 410. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
 The duties of the Commission are--
 (1) to investigate and study the problems and issues involved in the tenure
 (including discipline and removal) of an article III judge;
 (2) to evaluate the advisability of proposing alternatives to current
 arrangements with respect to such problems and issues, including alternatives
 for discipline or removal of judges that would require amendment to the
 Constitution; and
 (3) to prepare and submit to the Congress, the Chief Justice of the United
 States, and the President a report in accordance with section 415.
SEC. 411. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- The Commission shall be composed of 13 members
 as follows:
 (1) Three appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate.
 (2) Three appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
 (3) Three appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States.
 (4) Three appointed by the President.
 (5) One appointed by the Conference of Chief Justices of the States of the
 United States.
 (b) TERM- Members of the Commission shall be appointed for the life of
 the Commission.
 (c) QUORUM- Six members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but
 a lesser number may conduct meetings.
 (d) CHAIRMAN- The members of the Commission shall select one of the members
 to be the Chairman.
 (e) APPOINTMENT DEADLINE- The first appointments made under subsection (a)
 shall be made within 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (f) FIRST MEETING- The first meeting of the Commission shall be called
 by the Chairman and shall be held within 90 days after the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
 (g) VACANCY- A vacancy on the Commission resulting from the death or
 resignation of a member shall not affect its powers and shall be filled in
 the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (h) CONTINUATION OF MEMBERSHIP- If any member of the Commission who was
 appointed to the Commission as a Member of Congress or as an officer
 or employee of a government leaves that office, or if any member of the
 Commission who was appointed from persons who are not officers or employees
 of a government becomes an officer or employee of a government, the member
 may continue as a member of the Commission for not longer than the 90-day
 period beginning on the date the member leaves that office or becomes such
 an officer or employee, as the case may be.
SEC. 412. COMPENSATION OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) PAY- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), each member of the
 Commission who is not otherwise employed by the United States Government
 shall be entitled to receive the daily equivalent of the annual rate of
 basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of
 title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during
 which he or she is engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member
 of the Commission.
 (2) A member of the Commission who is an officer or employee of the United
 States Government shall serve without additional compensation.
 (b) TRAVEL- All members of the Commission shall be reimbursed for travel,
 subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance
 of their duties.
SEC. 413. DIRECTOR AND STAFF OF COMMISSION; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS.
 (a) DIRECTOR- The Commission shall, without regard to section 5311(b) of title
 5, United States Code, have a Director who shall be appointed by the Chairman
 and who shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable
 for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
 (b) STAFF- The Chairman of the Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such
 additional personnel as the Chairman finds necessary to enable the Commission
 to carry out its duties. Such personnel may be appointed without regard to
 the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in
 the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions
 of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
 classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that the annual rate
 of pay for any individual so appointed may not exceed a rate equal to the
 annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule under
 section 5332 of such title.
 (c) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Commission may procure temporary and
 intermittent services of experts and consultants under section 3109(b)
 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 414. POWERS OF COMMISSION.
 (a) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS- The Commission or, on authorization of the
 Commission, a member of the Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out
 this subtitle, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places,
 take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers
 appropriate. The Commission may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses
 appearing before it.
 (b) OBTAINING OFFICIAL DATA- The Commission may secure directly from any
 department, agency, or entity within the executive or judicial branch of
 the Federal Government information necessary to enable it to carry out this
 subtitle. Upon request of the Chairman of the Commission, the head of such
 department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.
 (c) FACILITIES AND SUPPORT SERVICES- The Administrator of General Services
 shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such facilities
 and support services as the Commission may request. Upon request of the
 Commission, the head of any Federal agency is authorized to make any of
 the facilities and services of such agency available to the Commission to
 assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under this subtitle.
 (d) EXPENDITURES AND CONTRACTS- The Commission or, on authorization of the
 Commission, a member of the Commission may make expenditures and enter into
 contracts for the procurement of such supplies, services, and property as
 the Commission or member considers appropriate for the purposes of carrying
 out the duties of the Commission. Such expenditures and contracts may be made
 only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts.
 (e) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
 manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
 the United States.
 (f) GIFTS- The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations
 of services or property.
SEC. 415. REPORT.
 The Commission shall submit to each House of Congress, the Chief Justice
 of the United States, and the President a report not later than one year
 after the date of its first meeting. The report shall contain a detailed
 statement of the findings and conclusions of the Commission, together with
 its recommendations for such legislative or administrative action as it
 considers appropriate.
SEC. 416. TERMINATION.
 The Commission shall cease to exist on the date 30 days after the date it
 submits its report to the President and the Congress under section 415.
SEC. 417. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated the sum of $750,000 to carry out
 the provisions of this subtitle.
SEC. 418. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 This subtitle shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE V--TELEVISION PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT
SEC. 501. TELEVISION PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Television Program
 Improvement Act of 1990'.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 (1) the term `antitrust laws' has the meaning given it in subsection (a)
 of the first section of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12(a)), except that such
 term includes section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45)
 to the extent that such section 5 applies to unfair methods of competition;
 (2) the term `person in the television industry' means a television network,
 any entity which produces programming (including theatrical motion pictures)
 for telecasting or telecasts programming, the National Cable Television
 Association, the Association of Independent Television Stations, Incorporated,
 the National Association of Broadcasters, the Motion Picture Association
 of America, the Community Antenna Television Association, and each of the
 networks' affiliate organizations, and shall include any individual acting
 on behalf of such person; and
 (3) the term `telecast' means--
 (A) to broadcast by a television broadcast station; or
 (B) to transmit by a cable television system or a satellite television
 distribution service.
 (c) EXEMPTION- The antitrust laws shall not apply to any joint discussion,
 consideration, review, action, or agreement by or among persons in the
 television industry for the purpose of, and limited to, developing and
 disseminating voluntary guidelines designed to alleviate the negative impact
 of violence in telecast material.
 (d) LIMITATIONS- (1) The exemption provided in subsection (c)  shall not
 apply to any joint discussion, consideration, review, action, or agreement
 which results in a boycott of any person.
 (2) The exemption provided in subsection (c) shall apply only to any joint
 discussion, consideration, review, action, or agreement engaged in only during
 the 3-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section.
TITLE VI--VISUAL ARTISTS RIGHTS
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990'.
SEC. 602. WORK OF VISUAL ART DEFINED.
 Section 101 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
 the paragraph defining `widow' the following:
 `A `work of visual art' is--
 `(1) a painting, drawing, print, or sculpture, existing in a single copy, in
 a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively
 numbered by the author, or, in the case of a sculpture, in multiple cast,
 carved, or fabricated sculptures of 200 or fewer that are consecutively
 numbered by the author and bear the signature or other identifying mark of
 the author; or
 `(2) a still photographic image produced for exhibition purposes only,
 existing in a single copy that is signed by the author, or in a limited
 edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered
 by the author.
`A work of visual art does not include--
 `(A)(i) any poster, map, globe, chart, technical drawing, diagram, model,
 applied art, motion picture or other audiovisual work, book, magazine,
 newspaper, periodical, data base, electronic information service, electronic
 publication, or similar publication;
 `(ii) any merchandising item or advertising, promotional, descriptive,
 covering, or packaging material or container;
 `(iii) any portion or part of any item described in clause (i) or (ii);
 `(B) any work made for hire; or
 `(C) any work not subject to copyright protection under this title.'.
SEC. 603. RIGHTS OF ATTRIBUTION AND INTEGRITY.
 (a) RIGHTS OF ATTRIBUTION AND INTEGRITY- Chapter 1 of title 17, United States
 Code, is amended by inserting after section 106 the following new section:
`Sec. 106A. Rights of certain authors to attribution and integrity
 `(a) RIGHTS OF ATTRIBUTION AND INTEGRITY- Subject to section 107 and
 independent of the exclusive rights provided in section 106, the author of
 a work of visual art--
 `(1) shall have the right--
 `(A) to claim authorship of that work, and
 `(B) to prevent the use of his or her name as the author of any work of
 visual art which he or she did not create;
 `(2) shall have the right to prevent the use of his or her name as the
 author of the work of visual art in the event of a distortion, mutilation,
 or other modification of the work which would be prejudicial to his or her
 honor or reputation; and
 `(3) subject to the  limitations  set forth in section 113(d), shall have
 the right--
 `(A) to prevent any intentional distortion, mutilation, or other modification
 of that work which would be prejudicial to his or her honor or reputation,
 and any intentional distortion,  mutilation, or modification of that work
 is a  violation of that right, and
 `(B) to prevent any destruction of a work of recognized stature, and  any
 intentional or grossly negligent destruction of that work is a violation
 of that right.
 `(b) SCOPE AND EXERCISE OF RIGHTS- Only the author of a work of visual art
 has the rights conferred by subsection (a) in that work, whether or not
 the author is the copyright owner. The authors of a joint work of visual
 art are coowners of the rights conferred by subsection (a) in that work.
 `(c) EXCEPTIONS- (1) The modification of a work of visual art which is a
 result of the passage of time or the inherent nature of the materials is
 not a distortion, mutilation, or other modification described in subsection
 (a)(3)(A).
 `(2) The modification of a work of visual art which is the result of
 conservation, or of the public presentation, including lighting and
 placement, of the work is not a destruction, distortion, mutilation, or
 other modification described in subsection (a)(3) unless the modification
 is caused by gross negligence.
 `(3) The rights described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) shall
 not apply to any reproduction, depiction, portrayal, or other use of a work
 in, upon, or in any connection with any item described in subparagraph (A)
 or (B) of the definition of `work of visual art' in section 101, and any
 such reproduction, depiction, portrayal, or other use of a work is not a
 destruction, distortion, mutilation, or other modification described in
 paragraph (3) of subsection (a).
 `(d) DURATION OF RIGHTS- (1) With respect to works of visual art created
 on or after the effective date set forth in section 610(a) of the Visual
 Artists Rights Act of 1990, the rights conferred by subsection (a) shall
 endure for a term consisting of the life of the author.
 `(2) With respect to works of visual art created before the effective date
 set forth in section 610(a) of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, but
 title to which has not, as of such effective date, been transferred from the
 author, the rights conferred by subsection (a) shall be coextensive with,
 and shall expire at the same time as, the rights conferred by section 106.
 `(3) In the case of a joint work prepared by two or more authors, the rights
 conferred by subsection (a) shall endure for a term consisting of the life
 of the last surviving author.
 `(4) All terms of the rights conferred by subsection (a) run to the end of
 the calendar year in which they would otherwise expire.
 `(e) TRANSFER AND WAIVER- (1) The rights conferred by subsection (a) may
 not be transferred, but those rights may be waived if the author expressly
 agrees to such waiver in a written instrument signed by the author. Such
 instrument shall specifically identify the work, and uses of that work,
 to which the waiver applies, and the waiver shall apply only to the work
 and uses so identified. In the case of a joint work prepared by two or more
 authors, a waiver of rights under this paragraph made by one such author
 waives such rights for all such authors.
 `(2) Ownership of the rights conferred by subsection (a) with respect to a
 work of visual art is distinct from ownership of any copy of that work, or of
 a copyright or any exclusive right under a copyright in that work. Transfer
 of ownership of any copy of a work of visual art, or of a copyright or any
 exclusive right under a copyright, shall not constitute a waiver of the
 rights conferred by subsection (a). Except as may otherwise be agreed by the
 author in a written instrument signed by the author, a waiver of the rights
 conferred by subsection (a) with respect to a work of visual art shall not
 constitute a transfer of ownership of any copy of that work, or of ownership
 of a copyright or of any exclusive right under a copyright in that work.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
 1 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item
 relating to section 106 the following new item:
`106A. Rights of certain authors to attribution and integrity.'.
SEC. 604. REMOVAL OF WORKS OF VISUAL ART FROM BUILDINGS.
 Section 113 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following:
 `(d)(1) In a case in which--
 `(A) a work of visual art has been incorporated in or made part of a
 building in such a way that removing the work from the building will cause
 the destruction, distortion, mutilation, or other modification of the work
 as described in section 106A(a)(3), and
 `(B) the author consented to the installation of the work in the building
 either before the effective date set forth in section 610(a) of the Visual
 Artists Rights Act of 1990, or in a written instrument executed on or
 after such effective date that is signed by the owner of the building and
 the author and that specifies that installation of the work may subject
 the work to destruction, distortion, mutilation, or other modification,
 by reason of its removal,
then the rights conferred by paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 106A(a)
shall not apply.
 `(2) If the owner of a building wishes to remove a work of visual art which
 is a part of such building and which can be removed from the building without
 the destruction, distortion, mutilation, or other modification of the work
 as described in section 106A(a)(3), the author's rights under paragraphs
 (2) and (3) of section 106A(a) shall apply unless--
 `(A) the owner has made a diligent, good faith attempt without success
 to notify the author of the owner's intended action affecting the work of
 visual art, or
 `(B) the owner did provide such notice in writing and the person so notified
 failed, within 90 days after receiving such notice, either to remove the
 work or to pay for its removal.
For purposes of subparagraph (A), an owner shall be presumed to have made a
diligent, good faith attempt to send notice if the owner sent such notice by
registered mail to the author at the most recent address of the author that
was recorded with the Register of Copyrights pursuant to paragraph (3). If
the work is removed at the expense of the author, title to that copy of the
work shall be deemed to be in the author.
 `(3) The Register of Copyrights shall establish a system of records whereby
 any author of a work of visual art that has been incorporated in or made
 part of a building, may record his or her identity and address with the
 Copyright Office. The Register shall also establish procedures under which
 any such author may update the information so recorded, and procedures under
 which owners of buildings may record with the Copyright Office evidence of
 their efforts to comply with this subsection.'.
SEC. 605. PREEMPTION.
 Section 301 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(f)(1) On or after the effective date set forth in section 610(a) of the
 Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, all legal or equitable rights that are
 equivalent to any of the rights conferred by section 106A with respect to
 works of visual art to which the rights conferred by section 106A apply are
 governed exclusively by section 106A and section 113(d) and the provisions
 of this title relating to such sections. Thereafter, no person is entitled
 to any such right or equivalent right in any work of visual art under the
 common law or statutes of any State.
 `(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) annuls or limits any rights or remedies under
 the common law or statutes of any State with respect to--
 `(A) any cause of action from undertakings commenced before the effective
 date set forth in section 610(a) of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990;
 `(B) activities violating legal or equitable rights that are not equivalent
 to any of the rights conferred by section 106A with respect to works of
 visual art; or
 `(C) activities violating legal or equitable rights which extend beyond
 the life of the author.'.
SEC. 606. INFRINGEMENT ACTIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 501(a) of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting after `118' the following: `or of the author as provided
 in section 106A(a)'; and
 (2) by striking out `copyright.' and inserting in lieu thereof `copyright
 or right of the author, as the case may be. For purposes of this chapter
 (other than section 506), any reference to copyright shall be deemed to
 include the rights conferred by section 106A(a).'.
 (b) EXCLUSION OF CRIMINAL PENALTIES- Section 506 of title 17, United States
 Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(f) RIGHTS OF ATTRIBUTION AND INTEGRITY- Nothing in this section applies
 to infringement of the rights conferred by section 106A(a).'.
 (c) REGISTRATION NOT A PREREQUISITE TO SUIT AND CERTAIN REMEDIES- (1)
 Section 411(a) of title 17, United States Code, is amended in the first
 sentence by inserting after `United States' the following: `and an action
 brought for a violation of the rights of the author under section 106A(a)'.
 (2) Section 412 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 `an action brought for a violation of the rights of the author under section
 106A(a) or' after `other than'.
SEC. 607. FAIR USE.
 Section 107 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by striking out
 `section 106' and inserting in lieu thereof `sections 106 and 106A'.
SEC. 608. STUDIES BY COPYRIGHT OFFICE.
 (a) STUDY ON WAIVER OF RIGHTS PROVISION-
 (1) STUDY- The Register of Copyrights shall conduct a study on the extent
 to which rights conferred by subsection (a) of section 106A of title 17,
 United States Code, have been waived under subsection (e)(1) of such section.
 (2) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 2 years after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Register of Copyrights shall submit to the
 Congress a report on the progress of the study conducted under paragraph
 (1). Not later than 5 years after such date of enactment, the Register of
 Copyrights shall submit to the Congress a final report on the results of
 the study conducted under paragraph (1), and any recommendations that the
 Register may have as a result of the study.
 (b) STUDY ON RESALE ROYALTIES-
 (1) NATURE OF STUDY- The Register of Copyrights, in consultation with the
 Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts, shall conduct a study on the
 feasibility of implementing--
 (A) a requirement that, after the first sale of a work of art, a royalty
 on any resale of the work, consisting of a percentage of the price, be paid
 to the author of the work; and
 (B) other possible requirements that would achieve the objective of allowing
 an author of a work of art to share monetarily in the enhanced value of
 that work.
 (2) GROUPS TO BE CONSULTED- The study under paragraph (1) shall be conducted
 in consultation with other appropriate departments and agencies of the
 United States, foreign governments, and groups involved in the creation,
 exhibition, dissemination, and preservation of works of art, including
 artists, art dealers, collectors of fine art, and curators of art museums.
 (3) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 18 months after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Register of Copyrights shall submit to the Congress
 a report containing the results of the study conducted under this subsection.
SEC. 609. FIRST AMENDMENT APPLICATION.
 This title does not authorize any governmental entity to take any action
 or enforce restrictions prohibited by the First Amendment to the United
 States Constitution.
SEC. 610. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b) and except as provided in subsection
 (c), this title and the amendments made by this title take effect 6 months
 after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The rights created by section 106A of title 17, United
 States Code, shall apply to--
 (1) works created before the effective date set forth in subsection (a)
 but title to which has not, as of such effective date, been transferred
 from the author, and
 (2) works created on or after such effective date, but shall not apply to
 any destruction, distortion, mutilation, or other modification (as described
 in section 106A(a)(3) of such title) of any work which occurred before such
 effective date.
 (c) SECTION 608- Section 608 takes effect on the date of the enactment of
 this Act.
TITLE VII--ARCHITECTURAL WORKS
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Architectural Works Copyright Protection Act'.
SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.
 (a) ARCHITECTURAL WORKS- Section 101 of title 17, United States Code, is
 amended by inserting after the definition of `anonymous work' the following:
 `An  `architectural work' is the design of a building as embodied in any
 tangible medium of expression, including a building, architectural plans,
 or drawings. The work includes the overall form as well as the arrangement
 and composition  of spaces and elements in the design, but does not include
 individual standard features.'.
 (b) BERNE CONVENTION WORK- Section 101 of title 17, United States Code,
 is amended in the definition of `Berne Convention work'--
 (1) in paragraph (3)(B) by striking `or' after the semicolon;
 (2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period and inserting `; or'; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
 `(5) in the case of an architectural work embodied in a building, such
 building  is erected in a country adhering to the Berne Convention.'.
SEC. 703. SUBJECT MATTER OF COPYRIGHT.
 Section 102(a) of title 17, United  States Code, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (6) by striking  `and' after the semicolon;
 (2) in paragraph (7) by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding after paragraph (7) the following:
 `(8) architectural works.'.
SEC. 704. SCOPE OF EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS IN ARCHITECTURAL WORKS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 1 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 120. Scope of exclusive rights in architectural works
 `(a) PICTORIAL REPRESENTATIONS  PERMITTED- The copyright in an architectural
 work that has been constructed does not include  the right to prevent the
 making, distributing, or public display of pictures, paintings, photographs,
 or other pictorial representations of the work, if the building in which
 the work is embodied is located in or ordinarily visible from a public place.
 `(b) ALTERATIONS TO AND DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS- Notwithstanding
 the provisions of section 106(2), the owners of a building embodying an
 architectural work may, without the consent of the  author or copyright owner
 of the architectural work, make or authorize the making of alterations to
 such building, and destroy or authorize the destruction of such building.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) The table of sections at the beginning of
 chapter 1 of title 17, United States Code, is  amended by adding at the
 end of the following:
`120. Scope of exclusive rights in architectural works.'.
 (2) Section 106 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `119' and inserting `120'.
SEC. 705. PREEMPTION.
 Section 301(b) of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2) by striking `or' after the semicolon:
 (2) in paragraph (3) by striking the period and inserting  `; or'; and
 (3) by adding  after paragraph (3) the following:
 `(4) State and local landmarks, historic preservation, zoning, or building
 codes, relating to architectural works protected under section 102(a)(8).'.
SEC. 706. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by this title apply to--
 (1) any architectural work created on or after the date of the enactment
 of this Act; and
 (2) any architectural work that, on the date of the enactment of this Act,
 is unconstructed and  embodied in unpublished plans or drawings, except that
 protection for such architectural work under title 17, United States Code,
 by virtue of the amendments made by this title, shall terminate on December
 31, 2002, unless the work is constructed by that date.
TITLE VIII--COMPUTER SOFTWARE
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Computer Software Rental Amendments Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 802. RENTAL OF COMPUTER PROGRAMS.
 Section 109(b) of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively;
 (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
 `(b)(1)(A) Notwithstanding  the provisions of subsection (a), unless
 authorized by the owners of copyright in the sound recording or the owner
 of copyright in a computer program (including any tape, disk, or other
 medium embodying such  program), and in the case of a sound recording in the
 musical works embodied therein, neither the owner of a particular phonorecord
 nor any person in possession of a particular copy of a computer program
 (including any tape, disk, or other medium embodying such program), may,
 for the purposes of direct or indirect commercial advantage, dispose of,
 or authorize the disposal of, the possession of that phonorecord or computer
 program (including any tape, disk, or other medium  embodying such  program)
 by rental, lease, or lending, or by any other act or practice in the nature
 of rental, lease, or lending. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall apply
 to the rental, lease, or lending of a phonorecord for nonprofit purposes
 by a nonprofit library or nonprofit  educational institution. The transfer
 of possession of a lawfully made copy of a computer program by a nonprofit
 educational institution to another nonprofit educational institution or to
 faculty, staff, and students does not constitute  rental, lease, or lending
 for direct or indirect commercial purposes under this subsection.
 `(B) This subsection does not apply to--
 `(i) a computer program which is embodied in a machine or product and which
 cannot be copied during the ordinary operation or use of the machine or
 product; or
 `(ii) a  computer program embodied  in or used in conjunction with a limited
 purpose computer that is designed for playing video games and may be designed
 for other purposes.
 `(C) Nothing in this subsection affects any provision of chapter 9 of
 this title.
 `(2)(A) Nothing in this subsection shall apply to the lending of a computer
 program for nonprofit purposes by a nonprofit library, if each copy of a
 computer program which is lent by such library has affixed to the packaging
 containing the program a warning of copyright in accordance with requirements
 that the Register of Copyrights shall prescribe by regulation.
 `(B) Not later than three years after the date of the enactment of
 the Computer Software Rental Amendments Act of 1990, and at such times
 thereafter as the Register of Copyright considers appropriate, the Register
 of Copyrights, after consultation with representatives of copyright owners
 and librarians, shall submit to the Congress a report stating whether this
 paragraph has achieved its intended purpose of maintaining the integrity
 of the copyright system while providing nonprofit libraries the capability
 to fulfill their function. Such report shall advise the Congress as to any
 information or recommendations that the Register of Copyrights considers
 necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.'; and
 (3) by striking paragraph (4), as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
 section, and inserting the following:
 `(4) Any person who distributes a phonorecord or a copy of a computer
 program (including any tape, disk, or other medium embodying such program)
 in violation of paragraph (1) is an infringer of copyright under section
 501 of this title and is subject to the remedies set forth in sections 502,
 503, 504, 505, and 509. Such violation shall not be a criminal offense under
 section 506 or cause such person to be subject to the criminal penalties
 set forth in section 2319 of title 18.'.
SEC. 803. PUBLIC DISPLAY OF ELECTRONIC VIDEO GAMES.
 Section 109 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 106(4) and 106(5), in the case
 of an electronic audiovisual game intended for use in coin-operated equipment,
 the owner of a particular copy of such a game lawfully made under this title,
 is entitled, without the authority of the copyright owner of the game, to
 publicly perform or display that game in coin-operated equipment, except
 that this subsection shall not apply to any work of authorship embodied in
 the audiovisual game if the copyright owner of the electronic audiovisual
 game is not also the copyright owner of the work of authorship.'.
SEC. 804. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), this title and the amendments
 made in section 802 shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this
 Act. The amendment made by section 803 shall take effect one year after
 such date of enactment.
 (b) PROSPECTIVE APPLICATION- Section 109(b) of title 17, United States
 Code, as amended by section 802 of this Act, shall not affect the right
 of a person in possession of a particular copy of a computer program,
 who acquired such copy before the date of the enactment of this Act, to
 dispose of the possession of that copy on or after such date of enactment
 in any manner permitted by section 109 of title 17, United States Code,
 as in effect on the day before such date of enactment.
 (c) TERMINATION- The amendments made by section 802 shall not apply
 to rentals, leasings, or lendings (or acts or practices in the nature of
 rentals, leasings, or lendings) occurring on or after October 1, 1997. The
 amendments made by section 803 shall not apply to public performances or
 displays that occur on or after October 1, 1995.
SEC. 805. RECORDATION OF SHAREWARE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Register of Copyrights is authorized, upon receipt of
 any document designated as pertaining to computer shareware and the fee
 prescribed by section 708 of title 17, United States Code, to record the
 document and return it with a certificate of recordation.
 (b) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS; PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION- The Register of
 Copyrights is authorized to maintain current, separate records relating
 to the recordation of documents under subsection (a), and to compile and
 publish at periodic intervals information relating to such recordations. Such
 publications shall be offered for sale to the public at prices based on
 the cost of reproduction and distribution.
 (c) DEPOSIT OF COPIES IN LIBRARY OF CONGRESS- In the case of public domain
 computer software, at the election of the person recording a document
 under subsection (a), 2 complete copies of the best edition (as defined in
 section 101 of title 17, United States Code) of the computer software as
 embodied in machine-readable form may be deposited for the benefit of the
 Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room of the Library of Congress.
 (d) REGULATIONS- The Register of Copyrights is authorized to establish
 regulations not inconsistent with law for the administration of the functions
 of the Register under this section. All regulations established by the
 Register are subject to the approval of the Librarian of Congress.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.