 
--H.R.2514--
H.R.2514
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
Amending subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Thrift Savings Plan Technical Amendments Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. CORRECTION OF EMPLOYING AGENCY ERRORS RELATING TO THE THRIFT
SAVINGS PLAN.
 (a) IN GENERAL-
 (1) AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 84- Chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
 is amended by inserting after section 8432 the following:
`Sec. 8432a. Payment of lost earnings
 `(a)(1) The Executive Director shall prescribe regulations under which
 an employing agency shall be required to pay to the Thrift Savings Fund
 amounts representing lost earnings resulting from errors (including errors
 of omission) made by such agency in carrying out this subchapter, subject
 to paragraph (2).
 `(2) If the error involves an employing agency's failure to deduct from
 basic pay contributions (in whole or in part) on behalf of an individual
 in accordance with section 8432(a), the regulations shall not provide for
 the payment of any lost earnings which would be attributable to--
 `(A) the contributions that the agency failed to deduct from basic pay in
 accordance with section 8432(a); or
 `(B) any related contributions under section 8432(c)(2) that the employing
 agency is not required (by statute or otherwise) to make up.
 `(b) The regulations--
 `(1) shall include--
 `(A) procedures for computing lost earnings; and
 `(B) procedures under which amounts paid to the Thrift Savings Fund under
 this section shall be credited to appropriate accounts;
 `(2) may provide for exceptions from the requirements of this section to
 the extent that correction of an error is not administratively feasible;
 `(3) may require an employing agency to reimburse the Thrift Savings Fund
 for costs incurred by the Thrift Savings Fund in implementing corrections
 of employing agency errors under this section; and
 `(4) may include such other provisions as the Executive Director determines
 appropriate to carry out this section.
 `(c) Any amounts required to be paid by an employing agency under this section
 shall be paid from the appropriation or fund available to the employing agency
 for payment of salaries of the participant's office or establishment. If a
 participant in the legislative branch is paid by the Clerk of the House of
 Representatives, the Clerk may pay from the contingent fund of the House of
 Representatives the amount required to be paid to correct errors relating to
 the Thrift Savings Fund that otherwise would be paid from the appropriation
 or fund used to pay the participant.'
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 84 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
 section 8432 the following:
`8432a. Payment of lost earnings.'
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by this section shall apply with
 respect to lost earnings attributable to errors made before, on, or after
 the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO THE INVESTMENT OF AMOUNTS IN
THE THRIFT SAVINGS FUND.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 8438 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (e) and redesignating subsections (f) through
 (i) as subsections (e) through (h), respectively;
 (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking `subsection (f)' and inserting
 `subsection (e)';
 (3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking `Subject to subsection (e), the'
 and inserting `The';
 (4) in subsection (d)(1), by striking `and not subject to subsection (e)';
 (5) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (g) (as so redesignated by
 paragraph (1)), by striking `subsection (f)' and inserting `subsection (e)',
 and in paragraph (3) of subsection (g) (as so redesignated), by striking
 `subsection (f)(2)' and inserting `subsection (e)(2)';
 (6) in subsection (g)(6) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)), by striking
 `subsection (i)' and inserting `subsection (h)'; and
 (7) in paragraph (1) of subsection (h) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)),
 by striking `subsection (h)' and inserting `subsection (g)', and in paragraph
 (2) of subsection (h) (as so redesignated), by striking `subsection (f)'
 and inserting `subsection (e)'.
 (b) REMOVAL OF INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS AFFECTING CSRS PARTICIPANTS AND OTHERS-
 (1) CSRS PARTICIPANTS- Section 8351(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code,
 is repealed.
 (2) JUSTICES AND JUDGES- Subsection (b) of the first section 8440a of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (6) and redesignating
 paragraph (7) as paragraph (6).
 (3) BANKRUPTCY JUDGES AND MAGISTRATES- Section 8440b(b) of title 5, United
 States Code (as so redesignated by section 9) is amended by striking paragraph
 (7) and redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (7).
 (4) OTHERS- Any other provision of law, in effect on the date of enactment
 of this Act, which provides that any amounts contributed to the Thrift
 Savings Fund, or earnings thereon, may be invested or reinvested only in the
 Government Securities Investment Fund established under section 8438(b)(1)(A)
 of title 5, United States Code, shall cease to be effective.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsections (a) and (b), and the amendments made by such
 subsections, shall be effective as of the second election period described in
 section 8432(b) of title 5, United States Code, beginning after the date of
 enactment of this Act, or as of such earlier date as the Executive Director
 may by regulation prescribe.
SEC. 4. EXEMPTION OF THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN ANNUITIES FROM STATE AND LOCAL
PREMIUM TAXES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 8434 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
 `(e)(1) No tax, fee, or other monetary payment may be imposed or collected
 by any State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
 or by any political subdivision or other governmental authority thereof,
 on, or with respect to, any amount paid to purchase an annuity contract
 under this section.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not be construed to exempt any company or other
 entity issuing an annuity contract under this section from the imposition,
 payment, or collection of a tax, fee, or other monetary payment on the
 net income or profit accruing to or realized by that entity from the sale
 of an annuity contract under this section if that tax, fee, or payment is
 applicable to a broad range of business activity.'
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO AN ANNUITY'S COMMENCEMENT DATE.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 8433-
 (1) RELATING TO DEADLINE FOR CHANGING AN ELECTION- Section 8433(f)(3)(A)
 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking `an annuity elected
 by the former employee or Member commences.' and inserting `an annuity
 contract is purchased to provide for the annuity elected by the former
 employee or Member.'
 (2) RELATING TO RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING DEFERRED ANNUITIES- Section
 8433(f)(3)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(B) A modification of a date may not be made under paragraph (2) on or
 after the date on which an annuity contract is purchased to provide for
 the annuity involved, and may not specify a date for the commencement of
 an annuity earlier than 90 days after the date on which the modification
 is submitted to the Executive Director (or such period shorter than 90 days
 as the Executive Director may by regulation prescribe).'
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 8434-
 (1) RELATING TO DEADLINE FOR CHANGING AN ELECTION- Section 8434(b) of title
 5, United States Code, is amended by striking `the annuity commences,'
 and inserting `an annuity contract is purchased to provide for that annuity,'.
 (2) RELATING TO THE PURCHASE OF ANNUITY CONTRACTS- Section 8434(d)(1) of
 title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking `At the time an annuity
 is to commence under this subchapter,' and inserting `Not earlier than 90
 days (or such shorter period as the Executive Director may by regulation
 prescribe) before an annuity is to commence under this subchapter,'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 8435-
 (1) DETERMINATION OF MARITAL STATUS- Section 8435(c)(1) of title 5, United
 States Code, is amended--
 (A) by inserting `an annuity contract is purchased to provide for' after
 `the date on which'; and
 (B) by striking `commences'.
 (2) DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF NOTIFICATION- Section 8435(d)(2)(B)(ii) of
 title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking `the annuity commences,'
 and inserting `an annuity contract is purchased to provide for the annuity,'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall be effective
 as of April 1, 1987.
SEC. 6. PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACCOUNTS HAVING A FINAL BALANCE OF $3,500
OR LESS.
 (a) IN GENERAL-
 (1) DEFINITION- Section 8401 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (30), by striking the final `and';
 (B) in paragraph (31), by striking `States.' and inserting `States; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 `(32) the term `nonforfeitable account balance' means any amounts in
 an account, established and maintained under subchapter III, which are
 nonforfeitable (as determined under section 8432(g)).'
 (2) PAYMENT OF NONFORFEITABLE ACCOUNT BALANCE IN CASE OF NONELECTION-
 Section 8433(h) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(h)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (d), if an employee or Member separates
 from Government employment before becoming entitled to a deferred annuity
 under subchapter II, and such employee's or Member's nonforfeitable account
 balance is $3,500 or less, the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable
 account balance to the participant in a single payment unless the employee
 or Member elects, at such time and otherwise in such manner as the Executive
 Director prescribes, to have the nonforfeitable account balance transferred
 to an eligible retirement plan as provided in subsection (e).
 `(2) Notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c), if an employee or Member
 separates from Government employment under circumstances making such employee
 or Member eligible to make an election under either of those subsections,
 and such employee's or Member's nonforfeitable account balance is $3,500 or
 less, the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable account balance to
 the participant in a single payment unless the employee or Member elects, at
 such time and otherwise in such manner as the Executive Director prescribes,
 one of the options available under subsection (b) or (c), as applicable.
 `(3) Unless otherwise elected under this section, and subject to paragraphs
 (1) and (2), benefits under this subchapter shall be paid as an annuity
 commencing for an employee, Member, former employee, or former Member on
 February 1 of the year following the latest of the year in which--
 `(A) the employee, Member, former employee, or former Member becomes 65
 years of age;
 `(B) occurs the tenth anniversary of the year in which the employee, Member,
 former employee, or former Member became subject to this subchapter; or
 `(C) the employee, Member, former employee, or former Member separates from
 Government employment.'
 (3) WAIVER OF NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS- Section 8435 of title 5, United
 States Code, is amended by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i),
 and by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
 `(h) Except with respect to the making of loans under section 8433(i),
 none of the provisions of this section requiring notification to, or the
 consent or waiver of, a spouse or former spouse of an employee, Member,
 former employee, or former Member shall apply in any case in which the
 nonforfeitable account balance of the employee, Member, former employee,
 or former Member is $3,500 or less.'
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) CSRS- Section 8351(b) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by
 section 3(b)(1), is further amended--
 (A) by adding after paragraph (7) the following:
 `(8) Notwithstanding paragraph (6), if an employee or Member who elects
 to make contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection (a)
 separates from Government employment before becoming entitled to a deferred
 or immediate annuity under this subchapter, and such employee's or Member's
 nonforfeitable account balance is $3,500 or less, the Executive Director
 shall pay the nonforfeitable account balance to the participant in a single
 payment unless the employee or Member elects, at such time and otherwise in
 such manner as the Executive Director prescribes, to have the nonforfeitable
 account balance transferred to an eligible retirement plan as provided in
 section 8433(e).
 `(9) Notwithstanding paragraphs (4) and (5), if an employee or Member
 separates from Government employment under circumstances making such employee
 or Member eligible to make an election under subsection (b) or (c) of section
 8433, and such employee's or Member's nonforfeitable account balance is
 $3,500 or less, the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable account
 balance to the participant in a single payment unless the employee or Member
 elects, at such time and otherwise in such manner as the Executive Director
 prescribes, one of the options available under such subsection (b) or (c),
 as applicable.
 `(10) For the purpose of this section, the term `nonforfeitable account
 balance' has the same meaning as under section 8401(32).'; and
 (B) by inserting after paragraph (7)(C) the following:
 `(D) Except with respect to the making of loans under section 8433(i),
 none of the provisions of this paragraph requiring notification to a spouse
 or former spouse of an employee, Member, former employee, or former Member
 shall apply in any case in which the nonforfeitable account balance of the
 employee, Member, former employee, or former Member is $3,500 or less.'
 (2) JUSTICES AND JUDGES- Subsection (b) of the first section 8440a of title
 5, United States Code, as amended by section 3(b)(2), is further amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(7) Notwithstanding paragraph (5), if any justice or judge who elects to make
 contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection (a) resigns without
 having met the age and service requirements set forth in section 371(c) of
 title 28, and such justice's or judge's nonforfeitable account balance is
 $3,500 or less, the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable account
 balance to the participant in a single payment unless the justice or judge
 elects, at such time and otherwise in such manner as the Executive Director
 prescribes, to have the nonforfeitable account balance transferred to an
 eligible retirement plan as provided in section 8433(e).
 `(8) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), if any justice or judge retires under
 subsection (a) or (b) of section 371 or section 372(a) of title 28, and
 such justice's or judge's nonforfeitable account balance is $3,500 or less,
 the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable account balance to the
 participant in a single payment unless the justice or judge elects, at such
 time and otherwise in such manner as the Executive Director prescribes,
 one of the options available under section 8433(b).'
 (3) BANKRUPTCY JUDGES AND MAGISTRATES- Subsection (b) of section 8440b of
 title 5, United States Code (as so redesignated by section 9, and as amended
 by section 3(b)(3)) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(8) Notwithstanding paragraph (4)(C), if any bankruptcy judge or magistrate
 who elects to make contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund under subsection
 (a) retires before becoming entitled to an immediate annuity, or an annuity
 upon attaining age 65, under section 377 of title 28 or section 2(c) of the
 Retirement and Survivors' Annuities for Bankruptcy Judges and Magistrates Act
 of 1988, and such bankruptcy judge's or magistrate's nonforfeitable account
 balance is $3,500 or less, the Executive Director shall pay the nonforfeitable
 account balance to the participant in a single payment unless the bankruptcy
 judge or magistrate elects, at such time and otherwise in such manner as the
 Executive Director prescribes, to have the nonforfeitable account balance
 transferred to an eligible retirement plan as provided in section 8433(e).
 `(9) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (4), if any
 bankruptcy judge or magistrate retires under circumstances making such
 bankruptcy judge or magistrate eligible to make an election under subsection
 (b) or (c) of section 8433, and such bankruptcy judge's or magistrate's
 nonforfeitable account balance is $3,500 or less, the Executive Director
 shall pay the nonforfeitable account balance to the participant in a single
 payment unless the bankruptcy judge or magistrate elects, at such time and
 otherwise in such manner as the Executive Director prescribes, one of the
 options available under such subsection (b) or (c), as applicable.'
 (4) OTHERS- The Executive Director (as appointed under section 8474(a)
 of title 5, United States Code) shall prescribe regulations under which
 the purposes of the amendments made by this section shall be carried out
 with respect to any individuals participating in the Thrift Savings Plan
 who would not otherwise be affected by this section.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section, and the amendments made by this section,
 shall be effective as of the second election period described in section
 8432(b) of title 5, United States Code, beginning after the date of enactment
 of this Act (or as of such earlier date as the Executive Director may by
 regulation prescribe), and shall apply with respect to separations occurring
 before, on, or after that effective date.
SEC. 7. ELECTION TO REMAIN SUBJECT TO CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO CAREER
APPOINTEES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 3392(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
 respectively;
 (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (c)(1); and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) An election under paragraph (1) may also be made by any career appointee
 who is appointed to a civilian position in the executive branch--
 `(A) which is not in the Senior Executive Service; and
 `(B) which is covered by the Executive Schedule, or the rate of basic pay
 for which is fixed by statute at a rate equal to 1 of the levels of the
 Executive Schedule.
An election under this paragraph shall remain effective so long as the
appointee continues to serve in the same position.'
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE; ELECTION BY PERSONS PREVIOUSLY APPOINTED-
 (1) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) ELECTION BY PERSONS PREVIOUSLY APPOINTED- The Office of Personnel
 Management shall prescribe regulations (including procedures and deadlines)
 under which an election under section 3392(c)(2) of title 5, United States
 Code (as amended by this section) may be made by any individual who--
 (A) on the date of enactment of this Act, is serving in a civilian position
 in the executive branch which--
 (i) is not in the Senior Executive Service; and
 (ii) satisfies section 3392(c)(2)(B) of such title 5 (as so amended);
 (B) was appointed to that position on or after November 1, 1986, and has
 served continuously in such position since then;
 (C) was a career appointee (within the meaning of section 3132(a)(4) of
 such title 5) immediately before having been so appointed; and
 (D) was not, based on such individual's appointment to the position described
 in subparagraph (A), eligible to make an election under section 3392(c)
 of such title 5 (as then in effect).
An election under this paragraph shall be effective as of the date of
appointment to the position described in subparagraph (A).
SEC. 8. REPEAL.
 Subsection (c) of section 133 of Public Law 100-238 (5 U.S.C. 8477 note)
 is repealed.
SEC. 9. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
 (a) SECTION REDESIGNATION- Chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
 is amended by redesignating the second section 8440a thereof (relating to
 bankruptcy judges and magistrates) as section 8440b.
 (b) TABLE OF SECTIONS- The table of sections for chapter 84 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the second
 section 8440a and inserting the following:
`8440b. Bankruptcy judges and magistrates.'
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.