 
--H.R.4808--
H.R.4808
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To encourage solar, wind, waste, and geothermal power production by
removing the
size limitations contained in the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act
of 1978.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Solar, Wind, Waste, and Geothermal Power
 Production Incentives Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. PURPA AMENDMENT.
 Section 210(e)(2) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
 is amended by inserting `(other than a qualifying small power production
 facility which is an eligible solar, wind, waste, or geothermal facility
 as defined in section 3(17)(E) of the Federal Power Act)' after `facility'
 where it first appears.
SEC. 3. FEDERAL POWER ACT AMENDMENTS.
 (a) Section 3(17)(A) of the Federal Power Act is amended by inserting `a
 facility which is an eligible solar, wind, waste, or geothermal facility,
 or' after `small power production facility' means'.
 (b) Section 3(17) of such Act is further amended by inserting at the end
 thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(E) `eligible solar, wind, waste or geothermal facility' means a facility
 which produces electric energy solely by the use, as a primary energy source,
 of solar energy, wind energy, waste resources or geothermal resources,
 and which would otherwise not qualify as a small power production facility
 because of the power production capacity limitation contained in subparagraph
 (A)(ii); but only if--
 `(i) either of the following is submitted to the Commission not later than
 December 31, 1994:
 `(I) an application for certification of the facility as a qualifying small
 power production facility; or
 `(II) notice that the facility meets the requirements for qualification; and
 `(ii) construction of such facility commences not later than December 31,
 1999, or, if not, reasonable diligence is exercised toward the completion
 of such facility taking into account all factors relevant to construction
 of the facility.'.
SEC. 4. FERC REGULATIONS.
 Unless the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission otherwise specifies,
 by rule after enactment of this Act, any eligible solar, wind, waste, or
 geothermal facility (as defined in section 3(17)(E) of the Federal Power
 Act as amended by this Act), which is a qualifying small power production
 facility (as defined in subparagraph (C) of section 3(17) of the Federal
 Power Act as amended by this Act)--
 (1) shall be considered a qualifying small power production facility for
 purposes of part 292 of title 18, Code of Federal Regulations, notwithstanding
 any size limitations contained in such part, and
 (2) shall not be subject to the size limitation contained in section
 292.601(b) of such part.
SEC. 5. LICENSING OF URANIUM ENRICHMENT FACILITIES.
 (a) DEFINITION OF PRODUCTION FACILITY- Section 11v. of the Atomic Energy Act
 of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(v)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new sentence: `Except with respect to the export of a uranium enrichment
 production facility, such term as used in chapters 10 and 16 shall not
 include any equipment or device (or important component part especially
 designed for such equipment or device) capable of separating the isotopes
 of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235.'.
 (b) REGULATION- Section 161b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42
 U.S.C. 2201(b)) is amended by striking the period at the end of the section
 and adding the following: `; in addition, the Commission shall prescribe
 such regulations or orders as may be necessary or desirable to promote the
 Nation's common defense and security with regard to control, ownership,
 or possession of any equipment or device, or important component part
 especially designed for such equipment or device, capable of separating
 the isotopes of uranium or enriching uranium in the isotope 235;'.
 (c) OWNERSHIP OF PRODUCTION FACILITIES- Section 41a. (2) of the Atomic
 Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2061(a)(2)) is amended by striking `section
 103 or 104' and inserting `under this Act'.
 (d) SABOTAGE OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES OR FUEL- Section 236 of the Atomic Energy
 Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2284) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (2);
 (2) by inserting `or' after the semicolon at the end of paragraph (3); and
 (3) by adding after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
 `(4) any uranium enrichment facility licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory
 Commission.'.
 (e) URANIUM ENRICHMENT FACILITIES- Chapter 16 of the Atomic Energy Act of
 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 193. LICENSING OF URANIUM ENRICHMENT FACILITIES.
 `(a) Environmental Impact Statement-
 `(1) MAJOR FEDERAL ACTION- The issuance of a license under sections 53 and 63
 for the construction and operation of any uranium enrichment facility shall
 be considered a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality
 of the human environment for purposes of the National Environmental Policy
 Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
 `(2) TIMING- An environmental impact statement prepared under paragraph
 (1) shall be prepared before the hearing on the issuance of a license for
 the construction and operation of a uranium enrichment facility is completed.
 `(b) Adjudicatory Hearing-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall conduct a single adjudicatory hearing
 on the record with regard to the licensing of the construction and operation
 of a uranium enrichment facility under sections 53 and 63.
 `(2) TIMING- Such hearing shall be completed and a decision issued before
 the issuance of a license for such construction and operation.
 `(3) SINGLE PROCEEDING- No further Commission licensing action shall be
 required to authorize operation.
 `(c) INSPECTION AND OPERATION- Prior to commencement of operation of a uranium
 enrichment facility licensed hereunder, the Commission shall verify through
 inspection that the facility has been constructed in accordance with the
 requirements of the license for construction and operation. The Commission
 shall publish notice of the inspection results in the Federal Register.
 `(d) Insurance and Decommissioning-
 `(1) The Commission shall require, as a condition of the issuance of a license
 under sections 53 and 63 for a uranium enrichment facility, that the licensee
 have and maintain liability insurance of such type and in such amounts as
 the Commission judges appropriate to cover liability claims arising out of
 any occurrence within the United States, causing, within or outside the
 United States, bodily injury, sickness, disease, or death, or loss of or
 damage to property, or loss of use of property, arising out of or resulting
 from the radioactive, toxic, explosive, or other hazardous properties of
 chemical compounds containing source or special nuclear material.
 `(2) The Commission shall require, as a condition for the issuance of a
 license under sections 53 and 63 for a uranium enrichment facility, that
 the licensee provide adequate assurance of the availability of funds for
 the decommissioning (including decontamination) of such facility using
 funding mechanisms that may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
 the following:
 `(A) Prepayment (in the form of a trust, escrow account, government fund,
 certificate of deposit, or deposit of government securities).
 `(B) Surety (in the form of a surety or performance bond, letter of credit,
 or line of credit), insurance, or other guarantee (including parent company
 guarantee) method.
 `(C) External sinking fund in which deposits are made at least annually.
 `(e) NO PRICE-ANDERSON COVERAGE- Section 170 of this Act shall not apply
 to any license under section 53 or 63 for a uranium enrichment facility
 constructed after the date of enactment of this section.'.
SEC. 6. RIGHT-OF-WAY USE.
 (a) The proposed alignment of the Harold T. (Bizz) Johnson California-Pacific
 Northwest Intertie line authorized by Public Laws 98-360 and 99-88 within
 Contra Costa County, California, is hereby rejected.
 (b) The Secretary of Energy, acting through the Western Area Power
 Administration, in consultation with all Intertie project participants,
 shall, prior to January 30, 1991, submit to the Committee on Interior and
 Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources of the Senate a proposed realignment of the Intertie
 within Contra Costa County, California.
 (c) To the maximum extent practicable, the proposed realignment shall be
 consistent with the needs of affected landowners, East Bay Regional Park
 District, the environment, and system security and reliability.
 (d) No action shall be taken to implement the proposed realignment prior
 to March 1, 1991.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.