 
--H.R.76--
H.R.76
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to study the eligibility of the
St. Marys River in the States of Florida and Georgia for potential addition
to the wild and scenic rivers system.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ST. MARYS RIVER STUDY
 (a) STUDY- Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, as amended (16
 U.S.C. 1276(a)), is further amended by adding the following new paragraph
 at the end thereof:
 `(106) ST. MARYS RIVER, FLORIDA AND GEORGIA- The segment from its headwaters
 to its confluence with the Bells River.'.
 (b) COMPLETION DATE- Section 5(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, as
 amended (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)), is further amended by adding the following
 new paragraph at the end thereof:
 `(8) The study of the river named in paragraph (106) of subsection (a)
 shall be completed not later than three years after the date of enactment of
 this paragraph. In carrying out the study, the Secretary of the Interior
 shall consult with the Governors of the States of Florida and Georgia
 or their representatives, representatives of affected local governments,
 and owners of land adjacent to the river. Such consultation shall include
 participation in the assessment of resource values and the development
 of alternatives for the protection of those resource values, and shall be
 carried out through public meetings and media notification. The study shall
 also include a recommendation on the part of the Secretary as to the role
 the States, local governments and landowners should play in the management
 of the river if it were designated as a component of the National Wild and
 Scenic Rivers System.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.