 
--H.R. 4174--
H.R. 4174
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish a comprehensive personnel system for employees of the
Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Administrative Office of the United States
 Courts Personnel Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. GENERAL PERSONNEL AUTHORITY.
 The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `Director') may appoint, fix the
 compensation of, assign, and direct such personnel as the Director determines
 necessary to discharge the duties and functions of the Administrative Office.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
 (a) The Director shall, by regulation, establish a personnel management
 system for the Administrative Office which provides for the appointment,
 pay, promotion, and assignment of all employees on the basis of merit, but
 without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
 appointments and other personnel actions in the competitive service, or the
 provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title,
 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates. The system shall
 apply to all Administrative Office employees except those referred to in
 section 603 of title 28, United States Code, and shall, at a minimum--
 (1) provide for a schedule of pay rates applicable to all employees; except
 as provided in paragraph (10), the basic pay of any person appointed under
 this section shall not exceed the rate of basic pay for level V of the
 Executive Schedule;
 (2) incorporate pay comparability principles as set forth in section 5301(a)
 of title 5, United States Code;
 (3) provide for the adjustment of the pay of employees at the same time
 and in the same percentage amount as rates of basic pay are adjusted for
 General Schedule and prevailing rate employees, as appropriate;
 (4) establish procedures for employee evaluations, the granting of periodic
 pay adjustments, incentive awards, and resolution of employee grievances;
 (5) establish procedures for disciplinary actions, including reduction in
 grade or pay, suspension, and removal, based on unacceptable performance
 or misconduct, except that--
 (A) such procedures shall be consistent with--
 (i) section 4303 of title 5, United States Code, to the extent that they
 relate to adverse actions based on unacceptable performance; and
 (ii) chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code, to the extent that they
 relate to adverse actions covered by such chapter; and
 (B) the Director may exempt from these procedures positions of a confidential
 or policy-determining character, not to exceed 4 percent of the authorized
 positions of the Administrative Office;
 (6) establish procedures for premium pay (including overtime), except that
 the Director may at his discretion implement flexible and compressed work
 schedules and may exempt the hours constituting such schedules from premium
 pay to the extent he deems necessary to implement such schedules;
 (7) include the principles set forth in section 2301(b) of title 5, United
 States Code;
 (8) prohibit personnel practices prohibited under section 2302(b) of title 5,
 United States Code;
 (9) prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex,
 national origin, political affiliation, marital status, or handicapping
 condition; the Director must promulgate regulations providing procedures
 for resolving complaints of discrimination by employees and applicants
 for employment;
 (10) provide for the basic pay of not more than 5 percent of the authorized
 positions of the Administrative Office (excluding the positions referred
 to in section 603 of title 28, United States Code) to be set at rates not
 to exceed the rate of basic pay for positions at level IV of the Executive
 Schedule; the aggregate pay (including basic pay and incentive awards) of
 any individual whose basic pay is set under this subsection may not exceed
 the salary of the Director; and
 (11) in the case of any individual who would be a preference eligible in
 the executive branch, provide preference for that individual in a manner
 and to an extent consistent with preference accorded to preference eligibles
 in the executive branch.
 (b) The Director may apply the provisions of sections 5723 and 6304(f)
 of title 5, United States Code, to the positions referred to in subsection
 (a)(10) and in section 603 of title 28, United States Code, including the
 Deputy Director.
 (c) The Director may provide for incentive awards for the positions referred
 to in section 603 of title 28, United States Code, including the Deputy
 Director, subject to the aggregate pay limitation in subsection (a)(10).
 (d) The Chief Justice of the United States or the Judicial Conference
 of the United States may grant incentive awards to the Director, except
 that the Director's aggregate pay for any fiscal year, including salary
 and incentive awards, may not exceed the salary of a United States circuit
 judge. The Chief Justice or the Judicial Conference may authorize application
 of section 5723 of title 5, United States Code, to the Director.
 (e) The Director may develop and conduct programs to meet the short- and
 long-range training needs of the agency.
 (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an individual who is an
 employee of the Administrative Office on the day before the effective date
 of this section and who, as of that day, was entitled to--
 (1) appeal a reduction in grade or removal to the Merit Systems Protection
 Board under chapter 43 of title 5, United States Code,
 (2) appeal an adverse action to the Merit Systems Protection Board under
 chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code, or
 (3) file an appeal with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under
 part 1613 of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
shall continue to be entitled to file such appeal so long as the individual
remains an employee of the Administrative Office, except that this provision
shall not apply to employees in positions referred to in section 603 of title
28, United States Code, or in positions of a confidential or policy-determining
character referred to in subsection (a)(10).
 (g) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to abolish or diminish any
 right or remedy granted to employees of or applicants for employment in
 the Administrative Office by any law prohibiting discrimination in Federal
 employment on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin,
 political affiliation, marital status, or handicapping condition, except
 that, with respect to any such employees and applicants for employment,
 any authority granted under any such law to the Equal Employment Opportunity
 Commission, the Office of Personnel Management, the Merit Systems Protection
 Board, or any other agency in the executive branch, shall be exercised by
 the Administrative Office.
SEC. 4. NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENTS.
 (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any employee of the
 Administrative Office who has completed at least 1 year of continuous service
 under a nontemporary appointment under the personnel system established
 pursuant to section 3 acquires a competitive status for appointment to any
 position in the competitive service for which the employee possesses the
 required qualifications.
 (b) A period of continuous service performed as a nontemporary employee of
 the Administrative Office immediately before the personnel system under
 section 3 takes effect shall, for purposes of subsection (a), be treated
 as if it had been performed under such system.
SEC. 5. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) Section 602(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(a) The Director shall appoint and fix the compensation of necessary
 employees of the Administrative Office in accordance with the Administrative
 Office of the United States Courts Personnel Act of 1990.'.
 (b) Section 603 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `of the Deputy Director and' and by inserting after the first sentence
 the following: `Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director
 shall not be deemed to be an `employee' for the purpose of subchapter I
 of chapter 63 of title 5. The salary of the Deputy Director shall be 92
 percent of the salary of the Director.'.
 (c) Section 2301(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
 (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
 (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
 (d) Section 2302(a)(2)(C) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 striking `, the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,'.
 (e) Section 4301(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
 (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).
 (f) Section 4501(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 subparagraph (B) and redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (H) as
 subparagraphs (B) through (G), respectively.
 (g) Section 4701(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `, the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,'.
 (h) Section 5102(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 striking subparagraph (B) and redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (G)
 as subparagraphs (B) through (F), respectively.
 (i) Section 5108(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 paragraph (1) and redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (1)
 and (2), respectively.
 (j) Section 5349(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,'.
 (k)(1) Section 5595(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (C); and
 (B) by adding after subparagraph (D) the following:
 `(E) the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, the Federal
 Judicial Center, and the courts named by section 610 of title 28; and'.
 (2) Section 5595(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding
 at the end the following: `However, the Director of the Administrative
 Office of the United States Courts may prescribe regulations to effect
 the application and operation of this section to the agencies specified in
 subsection (a)(1)(E) of this section.'.
 (l)(1) Section 5596(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 striking `Courts;' and inserting `Courts, the Federal Judicial Center,
 and the courts named by section 610 of title 28;'.
 (2) Section 5596(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `employees.' and inserting `employees, or to the agencies specified in
 subsection (a)(2) of this section.'.
 (m) Clause (v) of section 8331(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(v) an employee of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
 the Federal Judicial Center, or a court named by section 610 of title 28,
 excluded by the Director of the Administrative Office under section 8347(o)
 of this title;'.
 (n) Section 8347 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
 `(p) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 may exclude from the operation of this subchapter an employee of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts, the Federal Judicial
 Center, or a court named by section 610 of title 28, whose employment is
 temporary or of uncertain duration.'.
 (o) Section 8401(11)(i)(I) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 striking `(v),'.
 (p) Section 8402(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
 `(7) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States
 Courts may exclude from the operation of this chapter an employee of the
 Administrative Office of the United States Courts, the Federal Judicial
 Center, or a court named by section 610 of title 28, whose employment is
 temporary or of uncertain duration.'.
 (q) Section 602(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `604(a)(15)(B)' and inserting `604(a)(16)(B)'.
 (r) Section 402(a)(1) of the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice
 Act (102 Stat. 4650) is amended by striking `redesignating paragraph (18)'
 and inserting `redesignating paragraph (19)'.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION.
 There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1990 and for each
 fiscal year thereafter such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
 provisions of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.