 
--H.R.1--
H.R.1
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend Federal laws to reform housing, community and neighborhood develop
ment, and related programs, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Department of Housing and
 Urban Development Reform Act of 1989'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I--REFORMS TO DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Subtitle A--Ethics
Sec. 101. Allocation of housing assistance.
Sec. 102. HUD accountability.
Sec. 103. Prohibition of advance disclosure of funding decisions.
Sec. 104. Reform of headquarters reserve.
Sec. 105. Reform of CDBG discretionary fund and provision of technical
assistance.
Sec. 106. Waiver of regulation requirements and handbook provisions.
Sec. 107. Civil money penalties against mortgagees and lenders.
Sec. 108. Civil money penalties against multifamily mortgagors.
Sec. 109. Civil money penalties against section 202 mortgagors.
Sec. 110. Civil money penalties against GNMA issuers.
Sec. 111. Civil money penalties for violations of Interstate Land Sales Full
Disclosure Act.
Sec. 112. Registration of consultants.
Subtitle B--Management Reform
Sec. 121. Establishment of HUD Chief Financial Officer.
Sec. 122. Establishment of FHA Comptroller.
Sec. 123. Expediting rulemaking.
Sec. 124. Funding for program evaluation and monitoring.
Sec. 125. Refinancing of section 235 mortgages.
Sec. 126. Sanctions for improper conveyances under urban homestead programs.
Sec. 127. Reform of moderate rehabilitation program.
Subtitle C--Federal Housing Administration Reforms
Sec. 131. Annual audited financial statements.
Sec. 132. Credit reviews of persons acquiring mortgaged properties under
single family program for life of mortgage.
Sec. 133. Repeal of title X land development program.
Sec. 134. Civil money penalties for improper dealer and loan broker
participation in origination of property improvement loans.
Sec. 135. Notification regarding suspended mortgagees.
Sec. 136. FHA foreclosed properties.
Sec. 137. Report regarding providing foreclosed properties to 1989 disaster
victims.
Sec. 138. Report regarding actions to improve direct endorsement program.
Sec. 139. Co-insurance amendments.
Sec. 140. FHA management.
Sec. 141. Contracting for financial management support.
Sec. 142. FHA operations.
Sec. 143. Elimination of private investor-owners from single family mortgage
insurance program.
TITLE II--HOUSING PRESERVATION
Sec. 201. Limitations on prepayment.
Sec. 202. Clarification of applicability to voluntary termination of insurance.
Sec. 203. Incentives to extend low-income use.
Sec. 204. Preservation.
Sec. 205. Report on property disposition demonstration.
Sec. 206. Prohibition on prepayment of new rural housing loans.
Sec. 207. Equity takeout incentive for new rural housing loans.
TITLE III--HOUSING PROGRAM EXTENSIONS AND CHANGES
Sec. 301. Flexible subsidy program.
Sec. 302. Continuation of public housing economic rent.
Sec. 303. Extension of reciprocity in approval of housing subdivisions among
Federal agencies.
Sec. 304. HODAG Amendment.
TITLE IV--RURAL HOUSING
Sec. 401. Accountability in awards of assistance; remedies and penalties.
Sec. 402. Reuse of section 515 loan authority.
TITLE V--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON SEVERELY DISTRESSED PUBLIC HOUSING
Sec. 501. Purpose.
Sec. 502. Establishment of Commission.
Sec. 503. Membership of Commission.
Sec. 504. Functions of the Commission.
Sec. 505. Powers of Commission.
Sec. 506. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 507. Sunset.
TITLE VI--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON NATIVE AMERICAN, ALASKA NATIVE, AND NATIVE
HAWAIIAN HOUSING
Sec. 601. Establishment.
Sec. 602. Membership.
Sec. 603. Functions of the Commission.
Sec. 604. Powers of the Commission.
Sec. 605. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 701. Nullification of right of redemption of single family mortgagors
under section 312 rehabilitation loan program.
Sec. 702. CDBG Grants to Indian tribes.
TITLE VIII--SECTION 8 RENT ADJUSTMENTS
Sec. 801. Annual adjustment factors for section 8 rents.
TITLE I--REFORMS TO DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Subtitle A--Ethics
SEC. 101. ALLOCATION OF HOUSING ASSISTANCE.
 (a) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO FORMULA ALLOCATION- Section 213(d)(1) of the
 Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 is amended to read as follows:
 `(d)(1)(A) Except as provided by subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall
 allocate assistance referred to in subsection (a)(1) the first time it is
 available for reservation on the basis of a formula that is contained in a
 regulation prescribed by the Secretary, and that is based on the relative
 needs of different States, areas, and communities, as reflected in data as
 to population, poverty, housing overcrowding, housing vacancies, amount of
 substandard housing, and other objectively measurable conditions specified in
 the regulation. In allocating assistance under this paragraph for each program
 of housing assistance under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall apply
 the formula, to the extent practicable, in a manner so that the assistance
 under the program is allocated according to the particular relative needs
 under the preceding sentence that are characteristic of and related to the
 particular type of assistance provided under the program. Assistance under
 section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 shall be allocated in a manner
 that ensures that awards of the assistance under such section are made
 for projects of sufficient size to accommodate facilities for supportive
 services appropriate to the needs of frail elderly residents.
 `(B) The formula allocation requirements of subparagraph (A) shall not
 apply to--
 `(i) assistance that is approved in appropriation Acts for use under sections
 9 or 14, or the rental rehabilitation grant program under section 17,
 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, except that the Secretary shall
 comply with section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
 Reform Act of 1989 with respect to such assistance; or
 `(ii) other assistance referred to in subsection (a) that is approved in
 appropriation Acts for uses that the Secretary determines are incapable of
 geographic allocation, including amendments of existing contracts, renewal
 of assistance contracts, assistance to families that would otherwise lose
 assistance due to the decision of the project owner to prepay the project
 mortgage or not to renew the assistance contract, assistance to prevent
 displacement or to provide replacement housing in connection with the
 demolition or disposition of public and Indian housing, and assistance
 in support of the property disposition and loan management functions of
 the Secretary.
 `(C) Any allocation of assistance under subparagraph (A) shall, as determined
 by the Secretary, be made to the smallest practicable area, consistent
 with the delivery of assistance through a meaningful competitive process
 designed to serve areas with greater needs.
 `(D) Any amounts allocated to a State or areas or communities within a State
 that are not likely to be used within a fiscal year shall not be reallocated
 for use in another State, unless the Secretary determines that other areas
 or communities (that are eligible for assistance under the program) within
 the same State cannot use the amounts within that same fiscal year.'.
 (b) ALLOCATION TO NONMETROPOLITAN AREAS- The second sentence of section
 213(d)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 is amended
 by striking `such assistance' and inserting `the assistance that is subject
 to allocation under paragraph (1)(A)'.
 (c) COMPETITION FOR ASSISTANCE- Section 213(d) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the following
 new paragraph:
 `(5)(A) The Secretary shall not reserve or obligate assistance subject
 to allocation under paragraph (1)(A) to specific recipients, unless the
 assistance is first allocated on the basis of the formula contained in that
 paragraph and then is reserved and obligated pursuant to a competition.
 `(B) Any competition referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be conducted
 pursuant to specific criteria for the selection of recipients of
 assistance. The criteria shall be contained in--
 `(i) a regulation promulgated by the Secretary after notice and public
 comment; or
 `(ii) to the extent authorized by law, a notice published in the Federal
 Register.
 `(C) Subject to the times at which appropriations for assistance subject to
 paragraph (1)(A) may become available for reservation in any fiscal year,
 the Secretary shall take such steps as the Secretary deems appropriate to
 ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, the process referred to
 in subparagraph (A) is carried out with similar frequency and at similar
 times for each fiscal year.
 `(D) This paragraph shall not apply to assistance referred to in paragraph
 (4).'.
 (d) APPLICABILITY- In accordance with section 201(b)(2) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937, the amendments made by subsections (a), (b),
 and (c) of this section shall also apply to public housing developed or
 operated pursuant to a contract between the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development and an Indian housing authority.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 213(a)(1) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 is amended by striking `section 235 or 236 of the
 National Housing Act,'.
SEC. 102. HUD ACCOUNTABILITY.
 (a) NOTICE REGARDING ASSISTANCE-
 (1) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY- The Secretary shall publish in
 the Federal Register notice of the availability of any assistance under
 any program or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary.
 (2) PUBLICATION OF APPLICATION PROCEDURES- The Secretary shall publish in
 the Federal Register a description of the form and procedures by which
 application for the assistance may be made, and any deadlines relating
 to the award or allocation of the assistance. Such description shall be
 designed to help eligible applicants to apply for such assistance.
 (3) PUBLICATION OF SELECTION CRITERIA- Not less than 30 days before any
 deadline by which applications or requests for assistance under any program
 or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary must be submitted,
 the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the criteria by which
 selection for the assistance will be made. Subject to section 213 of the
 Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, such criteria shall include
 any objective measures of housing need, project merit, or efficient use of
 resources that the Secretary determines are appropriate and consistent with
 the statute under which the assistance is made available.
 (4) DOCUMENTATION OF DECISIONS-
 (A) The Secretary shall award or allocate assistance only in response to a
 written application in a form approved in advance by the Secretary, except
 where other award or allocation procedures are specified in statute.
 (B) The Secretary shall ensure that documentation and other information
 regarding each application for assistance is sufficient to indicate the
 basis on which any award or allocation was made or denied. The preceding
 sentence shall apply to--
 (i) any application for an award or allocation of assistance made by the
 Secretary to a State, unit of general local government, or other recipient
 of assistance, and
 (ii) any application for a subsequent award or allocation of such assistance
 by such State, unit of general local government or other recipient.
 (C)(i) The Secretary shall notify the public of all funding decisions
 made by the Department. The Secretary shall require any State or unit of
 general local government to notify the public of the award or allocation
 of such funding to subsequent recipients. The notification shall include
 the following elements for each funding decision:
 (I) the name and address of each funding recipient;
 (II) the name or other means of identifying the project, activity, or
 undertaking for each funding recipient;
 (III) the dollar amount of the funding for each project, activity, or
 undertaking;
 (IV) the citation to the statutory, regulatory, or other criteria under
 which the funding decision was made; and
 (V) such additional information as the Secretary deems appropriate for a
 clear and full understanding of the funding decision.
 (ii) The notification referred to in clause (i) of this subsection shall
 be published as a Notice in the Federal Register at least quarterly.
 (iii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term `funding decision' means the
 decision of the Secretary to make available grants, loans, or any other form
 of financial assistance to an individual or to an entity, including (but not
 limited to) a State or local government or agency thereof (including a public
 housing agency), an Indian tribe, or a nonprofit organization, under any
 program administered by the Department that provides, by statute, regulation,
 or otherwise, for the competitive distribution of financial assistance.
 (D) The Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register at least
 annually informing the public of the allocation of assistance under section
 213(d)(1)(A) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
 (E) The Secretary shall ensure that each application and all related
 documentation and other information referred to in subparagraph (B), including
 each letter of support, is readily available for public inspection for a
 period of not less than 5 years, beginning not less than 30 days following
 the date on which the award or allocation is made.
 (5) EMERGENCY EXCEPTION- The Secretary may waive the requirements of
 paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) if the Secretary determines that the waiver
 is required for appropriate response to an emergency. Not less than 30 days
 after providing a waiver under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall
 publish in the Federal Register the Secretary's reasons for so doing.
 (b) DISCLOSURES BY APPLICANTS- The Secretary shall require the disclosure
 of information with respect to any application for assistance within
 the jurisdiction of the Department for a project application submitted
 to the Secretary or to any State or unit of general local government by
 any applicant who has received or, in the determination of the Secretary,
 can reasonably be expected to receive assistance within the jurisdiction
 of the Department in excess of $200,000 in the aggregate during any fiscal
 year or such lower amount as the Secretary may establish by regulation. Such
 information shall include the following:
 (1) OTHER GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE- Information regarding any related assistance
 from the Federal Government, a State, or a unit of general local government,
 or any agency or instrumentality thereof, that is expected to be made
 available with respect to the project or activities for which the applicant
 is seeking assistance. Such related assistance shall include but not be
 limited to any loan, grant, guarantee, insurance, payment, rebate, subsidy,
 credit, tax benefit, or any other form of direct or indirect assistance.
 (2) INTERESTED PARTIES- The name and pecuniary interest of any person who has
 a pecuniary interest in the project or activities for which the applicant
 is seeking assistance. Persons with a pecuniary interest in the project or
 activity shall include but not be limited to any developers, contractors,
 and consultants involved in the application for assistance or the planning,
 development, or implementation of the project or activity. For purposes of
 this paragraph, residency of an individual in housing for which assistance
 is being sought shall not, by itself, be considered a pecuniary interest.
 (3) EXPECTED SOURCES AND USES- A report satisfactory to the Secretary of
 the expected sources and uses of funds that are to be made available for
 the project or activity.
 (c) UPDATING OF DISCLOSURE- During the period when an application is
 pending or assistance is being provided, the applicant shall update the
 disclosure required under the previous subsection within 30 days of any
 substantial change.
 (d) LIMITATION OF ASSISTANCE- The Secretary shall certify that assistance
 within the jurisdiction of the Department to any housing project shall not
 be more than is necessary to provide affordable housing after taking account
 of assistance described in subsection (b)(1). The Secretary shall adjust the
 amount of assistance awarded or allocated to an applicant to compensate in
 whole or in part, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, for any
 changes reported under subsection (c).
 (e) ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES- If the Secretary receives or obtains information
 providing a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of subsection (b)
 or (c) has occurred, the Secretary shall--
 (1) in the case of a selection that has not been made, determine whether
 to terminate the selection process or take other appropriate actions; and
 (2) in the case of a selection that has been made, determine whether to--
 (A) void or rescind the selection, subject to review and determination on
 the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 (B) impose sanctions upon the violator, including debarment, subject to
 review and determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 (C) recapture any funds that have been disbursed;
 (D) permit the violating applicant selected to continue to participate in
 the program; or
 (E) take any other actions that the Secretary considers appropriate.
The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a descriptive statement
of each determination made and action taken under this subsection.
 (f) CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Whenever any person knowingly and materially violates
 any provision of subsection (b) or (c), the Secretary may impose a civil
 money penalty on that person in accordance with the provisions of this
 section. This penalty shall be in addition to any other available civil
 remedy or any available criminal penalty, and may be imposed whether or
 not the Secretary imposes other administrative sanctions.
 (2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, may not exceed $10,000 for each violation.
 (g) AGENCY PROCEDURES- (1) The Secretary shall establish standards and
 procedures governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsection
 (f). These standards and procedures--
 (A) shall provide for the Secretary to make the determination to impose
 the penalty or to use an administrative entity to make the determination;
 (B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the person
 has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 (C) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt of the notice of
opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty shall constitute a final
and unappealable determination. If the Secretary reviews the determination
or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse that determination
or order. If the Secretary does not review the determination or order,
the determination or order shall be final.
 (2) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under subsection (f), consideration shall be given to such
 factors as the gravity of the offense, ability to pay the penalty, injury
 to the public, benefits received, deterrence of future violations, and such
 other factors as the Secretary may determine in regulations to be appropriate.
 (3) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF A PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (f) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in subsection (h).
 (h) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established by
 the Secretary under subsection (g)(1), a person against whom the Secretary
 has imposed a civil money penalty under subsection (f) may obtain a review
 of the penalty and such ancillary issues as may be addressed in the
 notice of determination to impose a penalty under subsection (g)(1)(A)
 in the appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in
 such court, within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination,
 a written petition praying that the order or determination of the Secretary
 be modified or be set aside in whole or in part.
 (2) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to subsection
 (g)(1) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at the
 hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure
 to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand the matter
 to the Secretary for consideration of such additional evidence.
 (3) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 (4) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in
 any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 (i) ACTION TO COLLECT THE PENALTY- If any person fails to comply with the
 determination or order of the Secretary imposing a civil money penalty under
 subsection (f), after the determination or order is no longer subject to
 review as provided by subsections (g)(1) and (h), the Secretary may request
 the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in an appropriate
 United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against the
 person and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment may,
 in the court's discretion, include the attorneys' fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 (j) SETTLEMENT BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify,
 or remit any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under
 this section.
 (k) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 (l) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES- The Secretary shall deposit all civil money
 penalties collected under this section into miscellaneous receipts of
 the Treasury.
 (m) DEFINITIONS- For the purpose of this section--
 (1) The term `Department' means the Department of Housing and Urban
 Development.
 (2) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
 (3) The term `person' means an individual (including a consultant,
 lobbyist, or lawyer), corporation, company, association, authority, firm,
 partnership, society, State, local government, or any other organization
 or group of people.
 (4) The term `assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department'
 includes any contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, or other form
 of assistance, including the insurance or guarantee of a loan, mortgage,
 or pool of mortgages.
 (5) The term `knowingly' means having actual knowledge of or acting with
 deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard for the prohibitions under
 this section.
 (n) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect on the date specified
 in regulations implementing this section that are issued by the Secretary
 after notice and public comment.
SEC. 103. PROHIBITION OF ADVANCE DISCLOSURE OF FUNDING DECISIONS.
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is amended by adding
 at the end the following new section:
`PROHIBITION OF ADVANCE DISCLOSURE OF FUNDING DECISIONS
 `SEC. 12. (a) PROHIBITED ACTIONS- During any selection process, no officer or
 employee of the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall knowingly
 disclose any covered selection information regarding such selection,
 directly or indirectly, to any person other than a person authorized by
 the Secretary to receive such information.
 `(b) ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES- If the Secretary receives or obtains information
 providing a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of subsection (a)
 has occurred, the Secretary shall--
 `(1) in the case of a selection that has not been made, determine whether
 to terminate the selection process or take other appropriate actions; and
 `(2) in the case of a selection that has been made, determine whether to--
 `(A) void or rescind the selection, subject to review and determination on
 the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 `(B) impose sanctions upon the violating applicant selected, subject to
 review and determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 `(C) permit the violating applicant selected to continue to participate in
 the program; or
 `(D) take any other actions that the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(c) CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Whenever any employee of the Department knowingly and
 materially violates the prohibition in subsection (a), the Secretary
 may impose a civil money penalty on the employee in accordance with the
 provisions of this subsection. This penalty shall be in addition to any
 other available civil remedy or any available criminal penalty and may be
 imposed whether or not the Secretary takes other disciplinary actions.
 `(2) AMOUNT- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the Secretary,
 may not exceed $10,000 for each violation.
 `(3) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under this subsection. The
 standards and procedures--
 `(i) shall provide for the Secretary or other official of the Department
 to make the determination to impose a penalty or to use an administrative
 entity to make the determination;
 `(ii) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the employee
 has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(iii) may provide for review of any determination or order, or interlocutory
 ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(B) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt of
 the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty shall
 constitute a final and unappealable order. If the Secretary reviews the
 determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse that
 determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the determination
 or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination or order,
 the determination or order shall be final.
 `(C) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under paragraph (2), consideration shall be given to such
 factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior disclosures of
 information on pending funding decisions made after the date of enactment
 of this section, ability to pay the penalty, injury to the public, benefits
 received, deterrence of future violations, and such other factors as the
 Secretary may determine in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(D) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF A PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under paragraph (1) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in paragraph (4).
 `(4) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established by
 the Secretary under paragraph (3)(A), an employee against whom the Secretary
 has imposed a civil money penalty under paragraph (1) may obtain a review of
 the penalty and such ancillary issues (such as any administrative sanctions
 under 24 C.F.R. part 25) as may be addressed in the notice of determination
 to impose a penalty under paragraph (3)(A)(i) in the appropriate court of
 appeals of the United States, by filing in such court, within 20 days after
 the entry of such order or determination, a written petition praying that
 the Secretary's order or determination be modified or be set aside in whole
 or in part.
 `(B) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to paragraph
 (3)(A) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at
 such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the
 failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand
 the matter to the Secretary for consideration of such additional evidence.
 `(C) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(D) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(5) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If any employee fails to comply with the
 Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil money penalty under
 paragraph (1), after the determination or order is no longer subject to review
 as provided by paragraphs (3)(A) and (4), the Secretary may request the
 Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in an appropriate
 United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against the
 employee and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment may,
 in the court's discretion, include the attorneys' fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(6) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or
 remit any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under
 this subsection.
 `(7) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES- The Secretary shall deposit all civil money
 penalties collected under this subsection into miscellaneous receipts of
 the Treasury.
 `(d) CRIMINAL PENALTIES- Whoever willfully violates subsection (a) by making
 a disclosure prohibited by subsection (a) to any applicant, or any officer,
 employee, representative, agent, or consultant of any applicant, shall be
 imprisoned not more than 5 years, or fined in accordance with title 18,
 United States Code, or both.
 `(e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) APPLICANT- The term `applicant' means any applicant or candidate that
 is being considered for receiving assistance.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE- The term `assistance' means any grant, loan, subsidy,
 guarantee, or other financial assistance under a program administered by
 the Secretary that provides by statute, regulation, or otherwise for the
 competitive distribution of such assistance. The term does not include any
 mortgage insurance provided under a program administered by the Secretary.
 `(3) COVERED SELECTION INFORMATION- The term `covered selection information'
 means--
 `(A) any information that is contained in any application or request for
 assistance, or any information regarding the decision of the Secretary to
 make available assistance or other information that is determined by the
 Secretary to be information that is not generally available to the public
 (not including program requirements and timing of the decision to make
 assistance available); and
 `(B) any information that is required by statute, regulation, or order to
 be confidential.
 `(4) KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual knowledge of
 or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard for the
 prohibitions under this section.
 `(5) SELECTION- The term `selection' means the determination of which
 applicants for assistance are to receive assistance under the program.
 `(6) SELECTION PROCESS- The term `selection process' means the period with
 respect to a selection for assistance that begins with the development,
 preparation, and issuance of a solicitation or request for applications for
 the assistance and concludes with the selection of recipients of assistance,
 and includes the evaluation of applications.
 `(f) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(g) APPLICABILITY- This section shall apply only with respect to violations
 that occur on or after the date of the enactment of the Department of
 Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989.'.
SEC. 104. REFORM OF HEADQUARTERS RESERVE.
 (a) FUNDING CATEGORIES- Section 213(d)(4) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 is amended to read as follows:
 `(4)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to fiscal
 years beginning after September 30, 1990, the Secretary may retain not more
 than 5 percent of the financial assistance that becomes available under
 programs described in subsection (a)(1) during any fiscal year. Any such
 financial assistance that is retained shall be available for subsequent
 allocation to specific areas and communities, and may only be used for--
 `(i) unforeseen housing needs resulting from natural and other disasters;
 `(ii) housing needs resulting from emergencies, as certified by the Secretary,
 other than such disasters;
 `(iii) housing needs resulting from the settlement of litigation; and
 `(iv) housing in support of desegregation efforts.
 `(B) Any amounts retained in any fiscal year under subparagraph (A) that
 are unexpended at the end of such fiscal year shall remain available for
 the following fiscal year under the program under subsection (a)(1) from
 which the amount was retained. Such amounts shall be allocated on the basis
 of the formula under subsection (d)(1).'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any assistance made available under section 213(d)(4)
 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 before October 1,
 1990, or pursuant to a commitment for such assistance entered into before
 such date, shall be governed by the provisions of section 213(d)(4) as such
 section existed before the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (c) INDIAN HOUSING- In accordance with section 201(b)(2) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937, the amendment made by subsection (a) and the
 provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall also apply to public
 housing developed or operated pursuant to a contract between the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development and an Indian housing authority.
SEC. 105. REFORM OF CDBG DISCRETIONARY FUND AND PROVISION OF TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE.
 (a) SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS- Section 107(a) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 is amended--
 (1) by striking `in a special discretionary fund' in the first sentence; and
 (2) by striking all that follows the period at the end of the second sentence.
 (b) AUTHORIZED USES- Section 107(b) of the Housing and Community Development
 Act of 1974 is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (3);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting
 a semicolon;
 (3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (5) (as amended) as paragraphs (1)
 and (2), respectively; and
 (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) the following
 new paragraph:
 `(3) to historically Black colleges; and'; and
 (5) in paragraph (4)--
 (A) by striking `and' after the third semicolon and all that follows through
 `and' after the fourth semicolon; and
 (B) by striking `and' at the end and inserting the following: `for purposes
 of this paragraph the term `technical assistance' means the facilitating of
 skills and knowledge in planning, developing, and administering activities
 under this title in entities that may need but do not possess such skills
 and knowledge, and includes assessing programs and activities under this
 title; except that any recipient of a grant under this paragraph that
 provides technical assistance pursuant to this paragraph shall provide
 for the notification of the availability of such assistance and shall have
 specific criteria for selection of recipients of such assistance that are
 published and publicly available.'.
 (c) FUNDING CRITERIA- Section 107 of the Housing and Community Development
 Act of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f) Any grant made under this section shall be made pursuant to criteria
 for selection of recipients of such grants that the Secretary shall by
 regulation establish and which the Secretary shall publish together with
 any notification of availability of amounts under this section.'.
 (d) APPLICABILITY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in this paragraph and paragraph (2), the
 amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any grants made
 under section 107 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 on or
 after the date of the enactment of this Act, except a grant made under the
 third sentence of section 107(a) of Housing and Community Development Act of
 1974, as such sentence existed immediately before such date, and grants for
 specific activities (referred to in House Report Number 101-297) pursuant
 to the amount appropriated for use under section 107 by the enactment of
 the bill, H.R. 2916, of the One Hundred First Congress.
 (2) PRIOR GRANTS- Any grant made under section 107 of the Housing and
 Community Development Act of 1974 before the date of the enactment of this
 Act or pursuant to a grant award notification made before such date shall
 be governed by the provisions of such section as it existed immediately
 before the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The section heading of section 107 of the Housing
 and Community Development Act of 1974 is amended to read as follows:
`SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS'.
SEC. 106. WAIVER OF REGULATION REQUIREMENTS AND HANDBOOK PROVISIONS.
 Section 7 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(q)(1) Any waiver of regulations of the Department shall be in writing
 and shall specify the grounds for approving the waiver.
 `(2) The Secretary may delegate authority to approve a waiver of a regulation
 only to an individual of Assistant Secretary rank or equivalent rank,
 who is authorized to issue the regulation to be waived.
 `(3) The Secretary shall notify the public of all waivers of regulations
 approved by the Department. The notification shall be included in a notice
 in the Federal Register published not less than quarterly. Each notification
 shall cover the period beginning on the day after the last date covered by
 the prior notification, and shall--
 `(A) identify the project, activity, or undertaking involved;
 `(B) describe the nature of the requirement that has been waived and specify
 the provision involved;
 `(C) specify the name and title of the official who granted the waiver
 request;
 `(D) include a brief description of the grounds for approval of the waiver;
 and
 `(E) state how more information about the waiver and a copy of the request
 and the approval may be obtained.
 `(4) Any waiver of a provision of a handbook of the Department shall--
 `(A) be in writing;
 `(B) specify the grounds for approving the waiver; and
 `(C) be maintained in indexed form and made available for public inspection
 for not less than the 3-year period beginning on the date of the waiver.'.
SEC. 107. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST MORTGAGEES AND LENDERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title V of the National Housing Act is amended by adding
 at the end the following new section:
`CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST MORTGAGEES AND LENDERS
 `SEC. 536. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Whenever a mortgagee approved under this Act, or a lender
 holding a contract of insurance under title I of this Act, knowingly and
 materially violates any of the provisions of subsection (b), the Secretary
 may impose a civil money penalty on the mortgagee or lender in accordance
 with the provisions of this section. The penalty shall be in addition to any
 other available civil remedy or any available criminal penalty, and may be
 imposed whether or not the Secretary imposes other administrative sanctions.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, may not exceed $5,000 for each violation, except that the maximum
 penalty for all violations by any particular mortgagee or lender during any
 1-year period shall not exceed $1,000,000. Each violation of a provision
 of subsection (b)(1) shall constitute a separate violation with respect to
 each mortgage or loan application. In the case of a continuing violation, as
 determined by the Secretary, each day shall constitute a separate violation.
 `(b) VIOLATIONS FOR WHICH A PENALTY MAY BE IMPOSED-
 `(1) VIOLATIONS- The Secretary may impose a civil money penalty under
 subsection (a) for any knowing and material violation by a mortgagee or
 lender, as follows:
 `(A) Except where expressly permitted by statute, regulation, or contract
 approved by the Secretary, transfer of a mortgage insured under this Act to a
 mortgagee not approved by the Secretary, or transfer of a loan to a transferee
 that is not holding a contract of insurance under title I of this Act.
 `(B) Failure of a nonsupervised mortgagee, as defined by the Secretary--
 `(i) to segregate all escrow funds received from a mortgagor for ground
 rents, taxes, assessments, and insurance premiums; or
 `(ii) to deposit these funds in a special account with a depository
 institution whose accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation through the Bank Insurance Fund for banks and through the
 Savings Association Insurance Fund for savings associations, or by the
 National Credit Union Administration.
 `(C) Use of escrow funds for any purpose other than that for which they
 were received.
 `(D) Submission to the Secretary of information that was false, in connection
 with any mortgage insured under this Act, or any loan that is covered by
 a contract of insurance under title I of this Act.
 `(E) With respect to an officer, director, principal, or employee--
 `(i) hiring such an individual whose duties will involve, directly or
 indirectly, programs administered by the Secretary, while that person was
 under suspension or withdrawal by the Secretary; or
 `(ii) retaining in employment such an individual who continues to be involved,
 directly or indirectly, in programs administered by the Secretary, while
 that person was under suspension or withdrawal by the Secretary.
 `(F) Falsely certifying to the Secretary or submitting to the Secretary a
 false certification by another person or entity.
 `(G) Failure to comply with an agreement, certification, or condition of
 approval set forth on, or applicable to--
 `(i) the application of a mortgagee or lender for approval by the Secretary;
 or
 `(ii) the notification by a mortgagee or lender to the Secretary concerning
 establishment of a branch office.
 `(H) Violation of any provisions of title I, II, or X (as such title existed
 immediately before the effective date of the Department of Housing and Urban
 Development Reform Act of 1989) of this Act or any implementing regulation
 or handbook that is issued under this Act.
 `(2) NOTIFICATION TO ATTORNEY GENERAL- Before taking action to impose a
 civil money penalty for a violation under paragraph (1)(D) or paragraph
 (1)(F), the Secretary shall inform the Attorney General of the United States.
 `(c) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsection (a). These
 standards and procedures--
 `(A) shall provide for the Secretary to make the determination to impose
 the penalty or to use an administrative entity (such as the Mortgagee Review
 Board, established pursuant to section 202(c) of the National Housing Act)
 to make the determination;
 `(B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the mortgagee
 or lender has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(C) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(2) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty
 shall constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary
 reviews the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or
 reverse that determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the
 determination or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination
 or order, the determination or order shall be final.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount of
 a penalty under subsection (a), consideration shall be given to such factors
 as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses (including
 those before enactment of this section), ability to pay the penalty, injury
 to the public, benefits received, deterrence of future violations, and such
 other factors as the Secretary may determine in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(4) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (a) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in subsection (d).
 `(d) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established
 by the Secretary under subsection (c)(1), a mortgagee or lender against
 whom the Secretary has imposed a civil money penalty under subsection (a)
 may obtain a review of the penalty and such ancillary issues (such as any
 administrative sanctions under 24 C.F.R. part 25) as may be addressed in
 the notice of determination to impose a penalty under subsection (c)(1)(A)
 in the appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in
 such court, within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination,
 a written petition praying that the Secretary's determination or order be
 modified or be set aside in whole or in part.
 `(2) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to subsection
 (c)(1) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at the
 hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure
 to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand the matter
 to the Secretary for consideration of the additional evidence.
 `(3) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(4) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(e) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If any mortgagee or lender fails to
 comply with the Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil
 money penalty under subsection (a), after the determination or order is
 no longer subject to review as provided by subsections (c)(1) and (d),
 the Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to
 bring an action in an appropriate United States district court to obtain a
 monetary judgment against the mortgagee or lender and such other relief as
 may be available. The monetary judgment may, in the court's discretion,
 include the attorneys fees and other expenses incurred by the United
 States in connection with the action. In an action under this subsection,
 the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's determination or order
 imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(f) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit
 any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
 `(g) DEFINITION OF KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual
 knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard
 for the prohibitions under this section.
 `(h) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(i) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES IN INSURANCE FUNDS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, all civil money penalties collected under this section
 shall be deposited in the appropriate insurance fund or funds established
 under this Act, as determined by the Secretary.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or after the
 effective date of this section; and
 (2) in the case of a continuing violation (as determined by the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development), any portion of a violation referred to
 in the amendment that occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 108. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGORS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title V of the National Housing Act (as amended by the
 preceding provisions of this Act) is further amended by adding at the end
 the following new section:
`CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGORS
 `SEC. 537. (a) IN GENERAL- The penalties set forth in this section shall be
 in addition to any other available civil remedy or any available criminal
 penalty, and may be imposed whether or not the Secretary imposes other
 administrative sanctions. The Secretary may not impose penalties under
 this section for violations a material cause of which are the failure of
 the Department, an agent of the Department, or a public housing agency to
 comply with existing agreements.
 `(b) PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT AS CONDITION OF TRANSFER OF PHYSICAL
 ASSETS, FLEXIBLE SUBSIDY LOAN, CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT LOAN, MODIFICATION OF
 MORTGAGE TERMS, OR WORKOUT AGREEMENT-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Whenever a mortgagor of property that includes 5 or more
 living units and that has a mortgage insured, co-insured, or held pursuant to
 this Act, who has agreed in writing, as a condition of a transfer of physical
 assets, a flexible subsidy loan, a capital improvement loan, a modification
 of the mortgage terms, or a workout agreement, to use nonproject income
 to make cash contributions for payments due under the note and mortgage,
 for payments to the reserve for replacements, to restore the project to
 good physical condition, or to pay other project liabilities, knowingly
 and materially fails to comply with any of these commitments, the Secretary
 may impose a civil money penalty on that mortgagor in accordance with the
 provisions of this section.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, for a violation of this subsection may not exceed the amount of
 the loss the Secretary would experience at a foreclosure sale, or a sale
 after foreclosure, of the property involved.
 `(c) VIOLATIONS OF REGULATORY AGREEMENT FOR WHICH PENALTY MAY BE IMPOSED-
 `(1) VIOLATIONS- The Secretary may also impose a civil money penalty under
 this section on any mortgagor of property that includes 5 or more living
 units and that has a mortgage insured, co-insured, or held pursuant to
 this Act for any knowing and material violation of the regulatory agreement
 executed by the mortgagor, as follows:
 `(A) Conveyance, transfer, or encumbrance of any of the mortgaged property,
 or permitting the conveyance, transfer, or encumbrance of such property,
 without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
 `(B) Assignment, transfer, disposition, or encumbrance of any personal
 property of the project, including rents, or paying out any funds, except
 for reasonable operating expenses and necessary repairs, without the prior
 written approval of the Secretary.
 `(C) Conveyance, assignment, or transfer of any beneficial interest in any
 trust holding title to the property, or the interest of any general partner
 in a partnership owning the property, or any right to manage or receive the
 rents and profits from the mortgaged property, without the prior written
 approval of the Secretary.
 `(D) Remodeling, adding to, reconstructing, or demolishing any part of the
 mortgaged property or subtracting from any real or personal property of
 the project, without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
 `(E) Requiring, as a condition of the occupancy or leasing of any unit in
 the project, any consideration or deposit other than the prepayment of the
 first month's rent, plus a security deposit in an amount not in excess of
 1 month's rent, to guarantee the performance of the covenants of the lease.
 `(F) Not holding any funds collected as security deposits separate and
 apart from all other funds of the project in a trust account, the amount
 of which at all times equals or exceeds the aggregate of all outstanding
 obligations under the account.
 `(G) Payment for services, supplies, or materials which exceeds $500
 and substantially exceeds the amount ordinarily paid for such services,
 supplies, or materials in the area where the services are rendered or the
 supplies or materials furnished.
 `(H) Failure to maintain at any time the mortgaged property, equipment,
 buildings, plans, offices, apparatus, devices, books, contracts, records,
 documents, and other related papers (including failure to keep copies of all
 written contracts or other instruments which affect the mortgaged property)
 in reasonable condition for proper audit and for examination and inspection
 at any reasonable time by the Secretary or any duly authorized agents of
 the Secretary.
 `(I) Failure to maintain the books and accounts of the operations of the
 mortgaged property and of the project in accordance with requirements
 prescribed by the Secretary.
 `(J) Failure to furnish the Secretary, by the expiration of the 60-day period
 beginning on the 1st day after the completion of each fiscal year, with a
 complete annual financial report based upon an examination of the books and
 records of the mortgagor prepared and certified to by an independent public
 accountant or a certified public accountant and certified to by an officer
 of the mortgagor, unless the Secretary has approved an extension of the
 60-day period in writing. The Secretary shall approve an extension where
 the mortgagor demonstrates that failure to comply with this subparagraph
 is due to events beyond the control of the mortgagor.
 `(K) At the request of the Secretary, the agents of the Secretary, the
 employees of the Secretary, or the attorneys of the Secretary, failure to
 furnish monthly occupancy reports or failure to provide specific answers
 to questions upon which information is sought relative to income, assets,
 liabilities, contracts, the operation and condition of the property, or
 the status of the mortgage.
 `(L) Failure to make promptly all payments due under the note and mortgage,
 including mortgage insurance premiums, tax and insurance escrow payments,
 and payments to the reserve for replacements when there is adequate project
 income available to make such payments.
The pay out of surplus cash, as defined by and provided for in the regulatory
agreement, shall not constitute a violation of such agreement.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- A penalty imposed for a violation under this
 subsection, as determined by the Secretary, may not exceed $25,000.
 `(d) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsections (b)
 and (c). These standards and procedures--
 `(A) shall provide for the Secretary or other department official (such as
 the Assistant Secretary for Housing) to make the determination to impose
 a penalty;
 `(B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the mortgagor
 has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(C) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(2) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty
 shall constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary
 reviews the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or
 reverse that determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the
 determination or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination
 or order, the determination or order shall be final.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under subsection (b) or (c), consideration shall be given to
 such factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses
 (including offenses occurring before enactment of this section), ability
 to pay the penalty, injury to the tenants, injury to the public, benefits
 received, deterrence of future violations, and such other factors as the
 Secretary may determine in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(4) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (b) or (c) shall not be subject
 to review, except as provided in subsection (e).
 `(e) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established by
 the Secretary under subsection (d)(1), a mortgagor against whom the Secretary
 has imposed a civil money penalty under subsection (b) or (c) may obtain
 a review of the penalty and such ancillary issues as may be addressed in
 the notice of determination to impose a penalty under subsection (d)(1)(A)
 in the appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in
 such court, within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination,
 a written petition praying that the Secretary's order or determination be
 modified or be set aside in whole or in part.
 `(2) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to subsection
 (d)(1) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at
 such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the
 failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand
 the matter to the Secretary for consideration of such additional evidence.
 `(3) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(4) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(f) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If a mortgagor fails to comply with the
 Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil money penalty under
 subsection (b) or (c), after the determination or order is no longer subject
 to review as provided by subsections (d)(1) and (e), the Secretary may
 request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in an
 appropriate United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against
 the mortgagor and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment
 may, in the court's discretion, include the attorneys fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(g) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit
 any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
 `(h) DEFINITION OF KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual
 knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard
 for the prohibitions under this section.
 `(i) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(j) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES IN INSURANCE FUNDS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, all civil money penalties collected under this section
 shall be deposited in the fund established under section 201(j) of the
 Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or
 after the effective date of this section.
SEC. 109. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST SECTION 202 MORTGAGORS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title II of the Housing Act of 1959 is amended by inserting
 after section 202 the following new section:
`CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST SECTION 202 MORTGAGORS
 `SEC. 202a. (a) IN GENERAL- The penalties set forth in this section shall
 be in addition to any other available civil remedy or criminal penalty, and
 may be imposed whether or not the Secretary imposes other administrative
 sanctions. The Secretary may not impose penalties under this section for
 violations a material cause of which are the failure of the Department,
 an agent of the Department, or a public housing agency to comply with
 existing agreements.
 `(b) PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT AS CONDITION OF TRANSFER OF PHYSICAL
 ASSETS, FLEXIBLE SUBSIDY LOAN, CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT LOAN, MODIFICATION OF
 MORTGAGE TERMS, OR WORKOUT AGREEMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Whenever a mortgagor of property that includes 5 or more
 living units and that has a mortgage held pursuant to section 202, who
 has agreed in writing, as a condition of a transfer of physical assets,
 a flexible subsidy loan, a capital improvement loan, a modification of
 the mortgage terms, or a workout agreement, to use nonproject income to
 make cash contributions for payments due under the note and mortgage, for
 payments to the reserve for replacements, to restore the project to good
 physical condition, or to pay other project liabilities, knowingly and
 materially fails to comply with any of these commitments, the Secretary
 may impose a civil money penalty on the mortgagor in accordance with the
 provisions of this section.
 `(2) AMOUNT- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the Secretary,
 for a violation of this subsection may not exceed the amount of the loss
 the Secretary would incur at a foreclosure sale, or sale after foreclosure,
 with respect to the property involved.
 `(c) VIOLATIONS OF REGULATORY AGREEMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may also impose a civil money penalty on a
 mortgagor or property that includes 5 or more living units and that has a
 mortgage held pursuant to section 202 for any knowing and material violation
 of the regulatory agreement executed by the mortgagor, as follows:
 `(A) Conveyance, transfer, or encumbrance of any of the mortgaged property,
 or permitting the conveyance, transfer, or encumbrance of such property,
 without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
 `(B) Assignment, transfer, disposition, or encumbrance of any personal
 property of the project, including rents, or paying out any funds, except
 for reasonable operating expenses and necessary repairs, without the prior
 written approval of the Secretary.
 `(C) Conveyance, assignment, or transfer of any beneficial interest in any
 trust holding title to the property, or the interest of any general partner
 in a partnership owning the property, or any right to manage or receive the
 rents and profits from the mortgaged property, without the prior written
 approval of the Secretary.
 `(D) Remodeling, adding to, reconstructing, or demolishing any part of the
 mortgaged property or subtracting from any real or personal property of
 the project, without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
 `(E) Requiring, as a condition of the occupancy or leasing of any unit in
 the project, any consideration or deposit other than the prepayment of the
 first month's rent, plus a security deposit in an amount not in excess of
 1 month's rent, to guarantee the performance of the covenants of the lease.
 `(F) Not holding any funds collected as security deposits separate and
 apart from all other funds of the project in a trust account, the amount
 of which at all times equals or exceeds the aggregate of all outstanding
 obligations under the account.
 `(G) Payment for services, supplies, or materials which exceeds $500
 and substantially exceeds the amount ordinarily paid for such services,
 supplies, or materials in the area where the services are rendered or the
 supplies or materials furnished.
 `(H) Failure to maintain at any time the mortgaged property, equipment,
 buildings, plans, offices, apparatus, devices, books, contracts, records,
 documents, and other related papers (including failure to keep copies of all
 written contracts or other instruments which affect the mortgaged property)
 in reasonable condition for proper audit and for examination and inspection
 at any reasonable time by the Secretary or any duly authorized agents of
 the Secretary.
 `(I) Failure to maintain the books and accounts of the operations of the
 mortgaged property and of the project in accordance with requirements
 prescribed by the Secretary.
 `(J) Failure to furnish the Secretary, by the expiration of the 60-day
 period beginning on the 1st day after the completion of each fiscal year,
 with a complete annual financial report based upon an examination of the
 books and records of the mortgagor prepared in accordance with requirements
 prescribed by the Secretary, and prepared and certified to by an independent
 public accountant or a certified public accountant and certified to by an
 officer of the mortgagor, unless the Secretary has approved an extension of
 the 60-day period in writing. The Secretary shall approve an extension where
 the mortgagor demonstrates that failure to comply with this subparagraph
 is due to events beyond the control of the mortgagor.
 `(K) At the request of the Secretary, the agents of the Secretary, the
 employees of the Secretary, or the attorneys of the Secretary, failure to
 furnish monthly occupancy reports or failure to provide specific answers
 to questions upon which information is sought relative to income, assets,
 liabilities, contracts, the operation and condition of the property, or
 the status of the mortgage.
 `(L) Failure to make promptly all payments due under the note and mortgage,
 including tax and insurance escrow payments, and payments to the reserve
 for replacements when there is adequate project income available to make
 such payments.
 `(M) Amending the articles of incorporation or bylaws, other than as permitted
 under the terms of the articles of incorporation as approved by the Secretary,
 without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- A penalty imposed for a violation under this
 subsection, as determined by the Secretary, may not exceed $25,000 for a
 violation of any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (1).
 `(d) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsections (b)
 and (c). These standards and procedures--
 `(A) shall provide for the Secretary or other department official (such as
 the Assistant Secretary for Housing) to make the determination to impose
 a penalty;
 `(B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the mortgagor
 has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(C) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(2) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty
 shall constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary
 reviews the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or
 reverse that determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the
 determination or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination
 or order, the determination or order shall be final.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under subsection (b) or (c), consideration shall be given to
 such factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses
 (including offenses occurring before enactment of this section), ability
 to pay the penalty, injury to the tenants, injury to the public, benefits
 received, deterrence of future violations, and such other factors as the
 Secretary may determine in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(4) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (b) or (c) shall not be subject
 to review, except as provided in subsection (e).
 `(e) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established by
 the Secretary under subsection (d)(1), a mortgagor against whom the Secretary
 has imposed a civil money penalty under subsection (b) or (c) may obtain
 a review of the penalty and such ancillary issues as may be addressed in
 the notice of determination to impose a penalty under subsection (d)(1)(A)
 in the appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in
 such court, within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination,
 a written petition praying that the Secretary's order or determination be
 modified or be set aside in whole or in part.
 `(2) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to subsection
 (d)(1) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at
 such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the
 failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand
 the matter to the Secretary for consideration of such additional evidence.
 `(3) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(4) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(f) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If a mortgagor fails to comply with the
 Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil money penalty under
 subsection (b) or (c), after the determination or order is no longer subject
 to review as provided by subsections (d)(1) and (e), the Secretary may
 request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in an
 appropriate United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against
 the mortgagor and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment
 may, in the court's discretion, include the attorneys fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(g) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit
 any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
 `(h) DEFINITION OF KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual
 knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard
 for the prohibitions under this section.
 `(i) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(j) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES IN INSURANCE FUNDS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, all civil money penalties collected under this section
 shall be deposited in the fund established under section 201(j) of the
 Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or
 after the effective date of this section.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 201(j)(2) of the Housing and Community
 Development Amendments of 1978 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' before `(D)'; and
 (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `, and (E)
 any amount received by the Secretary pursuant to section 537 of the National
 Housing Act and section 202a of the Housing Act of 1959'.
SEC. 110. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST GNMA ISSUERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title III of the National Housing Act is amended by adding
 at the end the following new section:
`CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES AGAINST ISSUERS
 `SEC. 317. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Whenever an issuer or custodian approved under section
 306(g) knowingly and materially violates any provisions of subsection (b),
 the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may impose a civil money
 penalty on the issuer or the custodian in accordance with the provisions
 of this section. The penalty shall be in addition to any other available
 civil remedy or any available criminal penalty and may be imposed whether
 or not the Secretary imposes other administrative sanctions.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, may not exceed $5,000 for each violation, except that the maximum
 penalty for all violations by a particular issuer or custodian during any
 one-year period shall not exceed $1,000,000. Each violation of a provision
 of subsection (b)(1) shall constitute a separate violation with respect to
 each pool of mortgages. In the case of a continuing violation, as determined
 by the Secretary, each day shall constitute a separate violation.
 `(b) VIOLATIONS FOR WHICH A PENALTY MAY BE IMPOSED-
 `(1) VIOLATIONS- The violations by an issuer or a custodian for which
 the Secretary may impose a civil money penalty under subsection (a) are
 the following:
 `(A) Failure to make timely payments of principal and interest to holders
 of securities guaranteed under section 306(g).
 `(B) Failure to segregate cash flow from pooled mortgages or to deposit
 either principal and interest funds or escrow funds into special accounts
 with a depository institution whose accounts are insured by the National
 Credit Union Administration or by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 through the Bank Insurance Fund for banks or through the Savings Association
 Insurance Fund for savings associations.
 `(C) Use of escrow funds for any purpose other than that for which they
 were received.
 `(D) Transfer of servicing for a pool of mortgages to an issuer not approved
 under this title, unless expressly permitted by statute, regulation, or
 contract approved by the Secretary.
 `(E) Failure to maintain a minimum net worth in accordance with requirements
 prescribed by the Association;
 `(F) Failure to promptly notify the Association in writing of any changes
 that materially affect the business status of an issuer.
 `(G) Submission to the Association of false information in connection with
 any securities guaranteed, or mortgages pooled, under section 306(g).
 `(H) Hiring, or retaining in employment, an officer, director, principal, or
 employee whose duties involve, directly or indirectly, programs administered
 by the Association while such person was under suspension or debarment by
 the Secretary.
 `(I) Submission to the Association of a false certification either on its
 own behalf or on behalf of another person or entity.
 `(J) Failure to comply with an agreement, certification, or condition of
 approval set forth on, or applicable to, the application for approval as
 an issuer of securities under section 306(g).
 `(K) Violation of any provisions of this title or any implementing regulation,
 handbook, or participant letter issued under authority of this title.
 `(2) NOTIFICATION TO ATTORNEY GENERAL- Before taking action to impose a
 civil money penalty for a violation under paragraph (1)(G) or paragraph
 (1)(I), the Secretary shall inform the Attorney General of the United States.
 `(c) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsection (a). The
 standards and procedures--
 `(A) shall provide for the Secretary to make the determination to impose
 the penalty;
 `(B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after an issuer
 or a custodian has been given notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on
 the record; and
 `(C) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(2) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of a notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of a penalty shall
 constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary reviews
 the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse that
 determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the determination
 or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination or order,
 the determination or order shall be final.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount of a
 penalty under subsection (a), consideration shall be given to such factors as
 the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses (including offenses
 occurring before enactment of this section), ability to pay the penalty,
 injury to the public, benefits received, deterrence of future violations,
 and such other factors as the Secretary may determine by regulations.
 `(4) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (a) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in subsection (d).
 `(d) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established
 by the Secretary under subsection (c)(1), an issuer or a custodian against
 which the Secretary has imposed a civil money penalty under subsection
 (a) may obtain a review of the penalty and such ancillary issues as may
 be addressed in the notice provided under subsection (c)(1)(A) in the
 appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in such court,
 within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination, a written
 petition praying that the Secretary's order or determination be modified
 or be set aside in whole or in part.
 `(2) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- A court shall not consider
 any objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant
 to subsection (c)(1) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary
 circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party
 demonstrates to the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence,
 which was not presented at such hearing, is material and that there were
 reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at the hearing,
 the court shall remand the matter to the Secretary for consideration of
 such additional evidence.
 `(3) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(4) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 the court shall have the power in any such review to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(e) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If any issuer or custodian fails to
 comply with the Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil
 money penalty under subsection (a), after the determination or order is
 no longer subject to review as provided by subsections (c)(1) and (d),
 the Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to
 bring an action in an appropriate United States district court to obtain
 a monetary judgment against the issuer or custodian and such other relief
 as may be available. The monetary judgment may, in the discretion of the
 court, include any attorneys fees and other expenses incurred by the United
 States in connection with the action. In an action under this subsection,
 the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's determination or order
 imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(f) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit
 any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
 `(g) DEFINITION OF KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual
 knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard
 for the prohibitions under this section.
 `(h) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(i) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES- The Secretary shall deposit all civil money
 penalties collected under this section into moneys of the Association
 pursuant to section 307.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or after the
 effective date of this section; and
 (2) in the case of a continuing violation (as determined by the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development), any portion of a violation referred to
 in the amendment that occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 111. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF INTERSTATE LAND SALES FULL
DISCLOSURE ACT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act is amended
 by inserting after section 1418 the following new section:
`CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES
 `SEC. 1418a. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Whenever any person knowingly and materially violates any
 of the provisions of this title or any rule, regulation, or order issued
 under this title, the Secretary may impose a civil money penalty on such
 person in accordance with the provisions of this section. The penalty
 shall be in addition to any other available civil remedy or any available
 criminal penalty, and may be imposed whether or not the Secretary imposes
 other administrative sanctions.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, may not exceed $1,000 for each violation, except that the maximum
 penalty for all violations by a particular person during any 1-year period
 shall not exceed $1,000,000. Each violation of this title, or any rule,
 regulation, or order issued under this title, shall constitute a separate
 violation with respect to each sale or lease or offer to sell or lease. In
 the case of a continuing violation, as determined by the Secretary, each
 day shall constitute a separate violation.
 `(b) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under subsection (a). The
 standards and procedures--
 `(A) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after a person has
 been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(B) may provide for review by the Secretary of any determination or order,
 or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(2) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty
 shall constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary
 reviews the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or
 reverse that determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the
 determination or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination
 or order, the determination or order shall be final.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under subsection (a), consideration shall be given to such
 factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses
 (including offenses occurring before enactment of this section), ability
 to pay the penalty, injury to the public, benefits received, deterrence of
 future violations, and such other factors as the Secretary may determine
 in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(4) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under subsection (a) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in subsection (c).
 `(c) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established by
 the Secretary under subsection (b)(1), a person aggrieved by a final order
 of the Secretary assessing a penalty under this section may seek judicial
 review pursuant to section 1411.
 `(2) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(d) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If any person fails to comply with the
 determination or order of the Secretary imposing a civil money penalty under
 subsection (a), after the determination or order is no longer subject to
 review as provided by subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary may request the
 Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in any appropriate
 United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against the person
 and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment may, in
 the discretion of the court, include any attorneys fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(e) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit
 any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
 `(f) DEFINITION OF KNOWINGLY- The term `knowingly' means having actual
 knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard
 for the prohibitions under this section.
 `(g) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to implement this section.
 `(h) USE OF PENALTIES FOR ADMINISTRATION- Civil money penalties collected
 under this section shall be paid to the Secretary and, upon approval in
 an appropriation Act, may be used by the Secretary to cover all or part of
 the cost of rendering services under this title.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or after the
 effective date of this section; and
 (2) in the case of a continuing violation (as determined by the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development), any portion of violation referred to in
 the amendment that occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 112. REGISTRATION OF CONSULTANTS.
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, as amended by the
 preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end
 the following new section:
`REGISTRATION OF CONSULTANTS
 `SEC. 13. (a) RECORD OF EXPENDITURES-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN- Each person who makes an expenditure to
 influence the decision of any officer or employee of the Department,
 through communication with such officer or employee, with respect to--
 `(A) the award of any financial assistance within the jurisdiction of the
 Department, or
 `(B) any management action involving a change in the terms and conditions
 or status of financial assistance awarded to any person,
shall keep records, as required by this section. The preceding sentence
shall not apply to expenditures incurred in complying with conditions,
requirements, or procedures imposed by the Secretary in connection with any
financial assistance.
 `(2) COVERED INFORMATION- Each person referred to in paragraph (1) shall
 keep a detailed and exact account of--
 `(A) all such expenditures made by or on behalf of such person; and
 `(B) the name and address of every person to whom any such expenditure is
 made and the date of the expenditure.
 `(3) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS- Each person making such an expenditure shall
 obtain a bill, stating the particulars, for every such expenditure, and
 shall retain all records required by this section for not less than the
 2-year period beginning on the date of the filing of the report required
 by subsection (b), which shall include the information under paragraph (2).
 `(4) LIMITATION OF FEES- Any person engaged for pay or other consideration
 for the purpose of attempting to influence any award or allocation of
 financial assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department shall not
 seek or receive any fee that is--
 `(A) based on the amount of assistance or number of units that may be
 provided by the Secretary, or
 `(B) contingent on an award of assistance by the Secretary, except where--
 `(i) services are provided to a nonprofit entity applying for such award
 or allocation of assistance; and
 `(ii) professional services related to a project are donated in whole or
 in part to a nonprofit entity in the event assistance for a project is
 not awarded.
 `(b) REPORTS OF EXPENDITURES FILED WITH THE SECRETARY-
 `(1) REPORT- Each person making an expenditure for the purposes designated
 in subsection (a)(1) shall file with the Secretary, between the 1st and 10th
 day of each calendar year, a report specifying the total expenditures made
 by or on behalf of such person during the year and the information required
 by subsection (a)(2)(B).
 `(2) REGULAR EMPLOYEES- The requirements of this subsection shall not apply
 in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to any regularly
 employed officer or employee of the person who requests or receives
 assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department, or who is involved
 in any management action with respect to such assistance.
 `(3) MINIMUM DOLLAR REQUIREMENTS- The requirements of this subsection shall
 not apply to any person whose total expenditures for purposes described
 in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(1) are less than $10,000 in
 any calendar year.
 `(4) FILING AND RETENTION- A report required by this subsection--
 `(A) shall be considered properly filed when deposited in a post office
 within the prescribed time, stamped, registered, and addressed to the
 Secretary, but if the Secretary does not receive the report, the person
 shall promptly file a duplicate report when the Secretary notifies the
 person that the original report has not been received; and
 `(B) shall be retained by the Secretary for the 2-year period beginning
 on the date of filing, shall constitute part of the public records of the
 Department, and shall be open to public inspection.
 `(5) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary shall compile all expenditure
 information as soon as practicable after the close of the calendar year
 with respect to which the information is filed and shall publish it as a
 notice in the Federal Register.
 `(c) REGISTRATION BY PERSONS ATTEMPTING TO INFLUENCE DEPARTMENT DECISIONS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT AND INFORMATION- Each person receiving payment or any
 consideration for the purpose described in subsection (a)(1), shall, not
 later than 14 days after being retained for such purpose, register with
 the Secretary. The registration shall be in writing and shall include the
 name and business address of the registrant, the name and address of the
 registrant's employer and of any person or entity in whose interest the
 registrant appears or works, and a statement of whether the registrant has
 been employed by the Federal Government during the 2-year period ending on
 the date of the registration and in what capacity. Each registrant shall,
 between the 1st and 10th day of each calendar year, file with the Secretary a
 detailed report of all money received and expended by the registrant during
 the preceding year in carrying out the work, including information as to
 whom money was paid, and for what purposes.
 `(2) MINIMUM DOLLAR REQUIREMENT- The requirements of the last sentence of
 paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to any calendar year to any person
 whose total compensation for attempting to influence a decision with respect
 to assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department or a management
 action with respect to such assistance is less than $10,000 in such year.
 `(3) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary shall compile all registration
 information as soon as practicable after the close of the calendar year with
 respect to which the information is filed and shall publish it annually as
 a notice in the Federal Register.
 `(d) CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Whenever any person knowingly fails to file a report
 required under subsection (b), or any person knowingly fails to register
 and file a report required under subsection (c), the Secretary may impose
 a civil money penalty on that person in accordance with the provisions of
 this subsection. The penalty shall be in addition to any other available
 civil remedy or any available criminal penalty, and may be imposed whether
 or not the Secretary imposes other administrative sanctions.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- The amount of the penalty, as determined by the
 Secretary, shall not exceed the greater of--
 `(A) $10,000 for each violation; or
 `(B) the total amount received for any services performed for any applicant
 to which the violation under paragraph (1) relates.
 `(3) FACTORS IN DETERMINING AMOUNT OF PENALTY- In determining the amount
 of a penalty under this subsection, consideration shall be given to such
 factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses
 (including offenses occurring before enactment of this section), ability
 to pay the penalty, injury to the public, benefits received, deterrence of
 future violations, and such other factors as the Secretary may determine
 in regulations to be appropriate.
 `(4) AGENCY PROCEDURES-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures
 governing the imposition of civil money penalties under paragraph (1). These
 standards and procedures shall--
 `(i) provide for the Secretary or other department official to make the
 determination to impose the penalty or for use of an administrative entity
 to make the determination;
 `(ii) provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the person has
 been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record; and
 `(iii) provide for review of any determination or order, or interlocutory
 ruling, arising from a hearing.
 `(B) FINAL ORDERS- If no hearing is requested within 15 days of receipt
 of the notice of opportunity for hearing, the imposition of the penalty
 shall constitute a final and unappealable determination. If the Secretary
 reviews the determination or order, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or
 reverse that determination or order. If the Secretary does not review the
 determination or order within 90 days of the issuance of the determination
 or order, the determination or order shall be final.
 `(C) REVIEWABILITY OF IMPOSITION OF PENALTY- The Secretary's determination
 or order imposing a penalty under paragraph (1) shall not be subject to
 review, except as provided in paragraph (5).
 `(5) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AGENCY DETERMINATION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- After exhausting all administrative remedies established
 by the Secretary under paragraph (4)(A), a person against whom the Secretary
 has imposed a civil money penalty under paragraph (1) may obtain a review of
 the penalty and such ancillary issues as may be addressed in the notice
 of determination to impose a penalty under paragraph (4)(A)(i) in the
 appropriate court of appeals of the United States, by filing in such court,
 within 20 days after the entry of such order or determination, a written
 petition praying that the Secretary's order or determination be modified
 or be set aside in whole or in part.
 `(B) OBJECTIONS NOT RAISED IN HEARING- The court shall not consider any
 objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to paragraph
 (4)(A) unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances
 causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to
 the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at the
 hearing is material and that there are reasonable grounds for the failure
 to present such evidence at the hearing, the court shall remand the matter
 to the Secretary for consideration of such additional evidence.
 `(C) SCOPE OF REVIEW- The decisions, findings, and determinations of the
 Secretary shall be reviewed pursuant to section 706 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(D) ORDER TO PAY PENALTY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 in any such review, the court shall have the power to order payment of the
 penalty imposed by the Secretary.
 `(6) ACTION TO COLLECT PENALTY- If any person fails to comply with the
 Secretary's determination or order imposing a civil money penalty under
 paragraph (1), after the determination or order is no longer subject to
 review as provided by paragraphs (4)(A) and (5), the Secretary may request
 the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in an appropriate
 United States district court to obtain a monetary judgment against the person
 and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment may, in
 the discretion of the court, include any attorneys' fees and other expenses
 incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action
 under this paragraph, the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's
 determination or order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(7) SETTLEMENT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or
 remit any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under
 this subsection.
 `(8) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES- The Secretary shall deposit all civil money
 penalties collected under this subsection into miscellaneous receipts of
 the Treasury.
 `(e) PROHIBITION ON CONSULTING ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Whoever is fined under subsection (d) may be prohibited,
 for the 3-year period beginning on the date of the imposition of the fine,
 from receiving any payment or thing of value for performing any services
 (with respect to any application for financial assistance within the
 jurisdiction of the Department) for any applicant.
 `(2) CRIMINAL PENALTY- Whoever violates the prohibition under paragraph
 (1) shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a felony and shall be fined under
 title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `person' means an individual (including a consultant,
 lobbyist, or lawyer), corporation, company, association, authority, firm,
 partnership, society, State, local government, or any other organization
 or group of people.
 `(2) The term `expenditure' includes a payment, distribution, loan,
 advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything else of value, and includes
 a contract, promise, or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable,
 to make an expenditure.
 `(3) The term `financial assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department'
 includes any contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, or other form
 of assistance, including the insurance or guarantee of a loan, mortgage,
 or pool of mortgages.
 `(4) The term `knowingly' means having actual knowledge of or acting with
 deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard for the prohibitions under
 this section.
 `(5) The term `reasonable compensation' means, with respect to a regularly
 employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent
 with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is
 not furnished to or not furnished in cooperation with the Department.
 `(6) The term `regularly employed' means, with respect to an officer
 or employee of a person requesting or receiving assistance within the
 jurisdiction of the Department or who is involved in a management action
 with respect to such assistance, an officer or employee who is employed
 by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately
 before the date of the submission that initiates departmental consideration
 of such person for receipt of such assistance, or the date of initiation
 of any management action.
 `(g) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to
 implement this section.
 `(h) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect on the date specified in
 regulations implementing this section that are issued by the Secretary after
 notice and public comment. The regulations shall establish standards that
 include determinations of what types of activities constitute influence with
 respect to the decisions of the Department described in subsection (a)(1)
 (A) and (B).'.
Subtitle B--Management Reform
SEC. 121. ESTABLISHMENT OF HUD CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.
 Section 4 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) There shall be in the Department a Chief Financial Officer, designated
 by the Secretary, who shall--
 `(1) serve as the principal advisor to the Secretary on financial management;
 `(2) develop and maintain a financial management system for the Department
 (including accounting and related transaction systems, internal control
 systems, financial reporting systems, credit, and cash and debt management);
 `(3) supervise and coordinate all financial management activities and
 operations of the Department;
 `(4) assist in the financial execution of the Department's budget in relation
 to actual expenditures and prepare timely performance reports for senior
 managers; and
 `(5) issue such policies and directives as may be necessary to carry out
 this section.'.
SEC. 122. ESTABLISHMENT OF FHA COMPTROLLER.
 Section 4 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, as amended
 by section 121, is further amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(f) There shall be in the Department a Federal Housing Administration
 Comptroller, designated by the Secretary, who shall be responsible for
 overseeing the financial operations of the Federal Housing Administration.'.
SEC. 123. EXPEDITING RULEMAKING.
 Section 7(o) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is
 amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2)(A)--
 (A) by striking `first period of 15 calendar days of continuous session
 of Congress which occurs' in the first sentence and inserting `15-calendar
 day period beginning on the day'; and
 (B) by striking `of continuous session' in the second sentence;
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking `of continuous session of Congress';
 (3) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) by striking `first period of 30 calendar days of continuous session of
 Congress which occurs' in the first sentence and inserting `expiration of
 the 30-calendar day period beginning on the day'; and
 (B) by striking all that follows the period at the end of the first sentence
 and inserting the following: `Any regulation implementing any provision of the
 Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 that authorizes
 the imposition of a civil money penalty may not become effective until after
 the expiration of a public comment period of not less than 60 days.'; and
 (4) by striking paragraphs (5) and (6).
SEC. 124. FUNDING FOR PROGRAM EVALUATION AND MONITORING.
 Section 7 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, as amended
 by section 106 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsection:
 `(r)(1) For the programs listed in paragraph (2), amounts appropriated
 under this subsection shall be available to the Secretary for evaluating
 and monitoring of all such programs (including all aspects of the public
 housing and section 202 programs). The Secretary shall expend amounts made
 available under this subsection in accordance with the need and complexity
 of evaluating and monitoring each such program.
 `(2) The programs subject to this subsection shall be the programs authorized
 under--
 `(A) titles I and II of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
 `(B) section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959;
 `(C) section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968;
 `(D) the Fair Housing Act;
 `(E) title I and section 810 of the Housing and Community Development Act
 of 1974;
 `(F) section 201 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978;
 `(G) the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978;
 `(H) section 222 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983;
 `(I) section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987; and
 `(J) title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act.
 `(3) In conducting evaluations and monitoring pursuant to the authority
 under this subsection, the Secretary shall determine any need for additional
 staff and funding relating to evaluating and monitoring the programs under
 paragraph (2).
 `(4)(A) The Secretary may provide for evaluation and monitoring under this
 subsection directly or by grants, contracts, or interagency agreements. Not
 more than 50 percent of the amounts made available under paragraph (1)
 may be used for grants, contracts, or interagency agreements.
 `(B) Any amounts not used for grants, contracts, or interagency agreements
 under subparagraph (A) shall be used in a manner that increases and
 strengthens the ability of the Department to monitor and evaluate the
 programs under paragraph (2) through officers and employees of the Department.
 `(5) Not later than December 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit
 to the Congress a report regarding the use of amounts made available under
 this subsection during the fiscal year ending on September 30 of that
 year, including an analysis of the ability of the Department to monitor
 and evaluate the programs under paragraph (2) and a statement of any needs
 determined under paragraph (3).
 `(6) There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection
 $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1991. Such amounts shall remain available
 until expended.'.
SEC. 125. REFINANCING OF SECTION 235 MORTGAGES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 235(r) of the National Housing Act is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(r)(1) The Secretary is authorized, upon application of a mortgagee, to
 insure under this subsection a mortgage the proceeds of which are used to
 refinance a mortgage insured under this section.
 `(2) To be eligible for insurance under this subsection, a mortgage must be
 executed by a mortgagor meeting the requirements of paragraph (3) and shall--
 `(A) be a first lien on real estate held in fee simple, or on a leasehold
 under a lease--
 `(i) for not less than 99 years which is renewable; or
 `(ii) having a period of not less than 10 years to run beyond the maturity
 date of the mortgage;
 `(B) have been made to, and held by, a mortgagee approved by the Secretary;
 `(C) be in an amount not exceeding the outstanding principal balance,
 including any unpaid interest, due on the mortgage being refinanced;
 `(D) have a maturity not exceeding the unexpired term of the mortgage
 being refinanced;
 `(E) bear an interest rate not exceeding such percent per annum on the
 amount of the principal obligation outstanding at any time as the Secretary
 finds necessary to meet the mortgage market, taking into consideration the
 yields on mortgages in the primary and secondary markets; to the extent
 that the amounts described in paragraphs (4) (A) and (B) are not otherwise
 paid by the Secretary, the foregoing interest rate may be increased, in the
 discretion of the Secretary, to compensate the mortgagee for its payment to,
 or on behalf of, the mortgagor of such amounts; and
 `(F) meet the criteria for refinancing as determined by the Secretary.
 `(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (h)(2), assistance
 payments in connection with mortgages insured under paragraph (2) shall
 be made only with respect to a family who is eligible for, and receiving
 assistance payments with respect to, the insured mortgage being refinanced.
 `(4) The Secretary is authorized and, to the extent provided in appropriation
 Acts, may pay to the mortgagor (directly, through the mortgagee, or
 otherwise)--
 `(A) an amount, as approved by the Secretary, as an incentive to the
 mortgagor to refinance a mortgage insured under this section; and
 `(B) an amount as approved by the Secretary for costs incurred in connection
 with the refinancing, including but not limited to discounts, loan origination
 fees, and closing costs.
 `(5) Amounts of budget authority required for assistance payments contracts
 with respect to mortgages insured under this subsection shall be derived
 from amounts recaptured from assistance payments contracts relating to
 mortgages that are being refinanced. For purposes of subsection (c)(3)(A),
 the amount of recaptured budget authority that the Secretary commits for
 assistance payments contracts relating to mortgages insured under this
 subsection shall not be construed as `unused'.
 `(6) The Secretary is authorized to take any actions to identify and
 communicate with any mortgagor of a mortgage insured under this section
 to implement the refinancing of such mortgages with insurance under
 this subsection. The Secretary may take such actions directly, or under
 contract. Notwithstanding the restriction of section 552a(b) of title
 5 of the United States Code, upon the request of an approved mortgagee,
 the Secretary may disclose to such mortgagee the name and address of any
 mortgagor of a mortgage insured under this section that meets the criteria
 for refinancing, pursuant to paragraph (2)(F), and the unpaid principal
 balance and interest rate on such mortgage.
 `(7) The Secretary shall implement the provisions of this subsection by a
 notice published in the Federal Register.'.
 (b) EXCESS RECAPTURED AMOUNTS- Section 235(c)(3)(C) of the National Housing
 Act is amended by inserting after the period at the end the following new
 sentence: `Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any amounts of budget
 authority or contract authority recaptured from assistance payments contracts
 relating to mortgages that are being refinanced that are not required for
 assistance payments contracts relating to mortgages insured under this
 subsection, shall be rescinded.'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 235 of the National Housing Act is
 amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting `, other than a contract in connection
 with a refinancing under subsection (r),' in the second sentence after
 `any new contract';
 (2) in subsection (c)(3)(A), by inserting `(except to the extent provided in
 subsection (r) for mortgages insured under such subsection)' in the second
 sentence after `refinanced,';
 (3) in subsection (e), by striking `or (j)(7),' and inserting `(j)(7), or
 (r),';
 (4) in subsection (h)(1)--
 (A) by inserting `(other than obligations in connection with mortgages
 insured under subsection (r))' in the third sentence after `October 1, 1983';
 (B) by inserting `(except under subsection (r))' in the sixth sentence after
 `under this section' the first place it appears; and
 (C) by inserting `(other than a contract in connection with a mortgage insured
 under subsection (r))' in the seventh sentence after `under this section';
 (5) in subsection (h)(3), by inserting after the period at the end the
 following: `The preceding sentence shall not apply to contracts in connection
 with mortgages insured under subsection (r).';
 (6) in subsection (m), by inserting `(except a mortgage insured under
 subsection (r))' after `No mortgage'; and
 (7) in subsection (n), by inserting `or to a mortgage insured under subsection
 (r)' before the period at the end.
 (d) SAVINGS PROVISION- Notwithstanding the termination of the program
 under section 235 pursuant to section 401(d) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1987, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
 shall have authority to insure mortgages under section 235(r), to make
 assistance payments with respect to such insured mortgages, and to make
 any other payment or take any other action related to the refinancing of
 mortgages insured under section 235.
SEC. 126. SANCTIONS FOR IMPROPER CONVEYANCES UNDER URBAN HOMESTEAD PROGRAMS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 810 of the Housing and Community Development Act
 of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(m) If the Secretary determines that any property transferred for use under
 an urban homestead program under this section has been conveyed or used
 under the program in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section,
 the Secretary may take action as the Secretary considers appropriate,
 including taking any of the following actions:
 `(1) The Secretary may impose a civil penalty on the unit of general local
 government or the State or the qualified community organization or public
 agency designated by a unit of general local government, or the transferee
 of such entity, as appropriate, in an amount not less than any profit
 realized with respect to the conveyance or use of the property contrary to
 the provisions of this section.
 `(2) The Secretary may revoke the conveyance of the property pursuant to
 subsection (b)(4) and revoke the transfer of the property to the unit of
 general local government or State or the qualified community organization
 or public agency designated by a unit of general local government, except
 that the Secretary may not revoke the conveyance of any property under this
 paragraph if the Secretary determines that the conveyance was made to an
 individual or family who has substantially complied with the requirements of
 this section for participation in an urban homestead program and who has no
 knowledge of the conveyance or use of the property contrary to the provisions
 of this section. If any tenants of any property for which a conveyance is
 revoked under this paragraph would be displaced by such revocation and the
 Secretary determines that the tenants are not responsible for or involved in
 the actions for which the revocation has been imposed, the Secretary shall,
 if practicable, take actions that would allow the tenants to remain on the
 property and maintain the property under an urban homestead program.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 810(b)(4) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 is amended by inserting before the semicolon at
 the end the following: `or by the Secretary under subsection (m)(2)'.
 (c) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by this section shall apply to any
 property transferred for use in an urban homestead program under section 810
 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 after January 1, 1981.
SEC. 127. REFORM OF MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAM.
 Section 8(e)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
 (1) by striking the period at the end of the first sentence and inserting
 the following: `, and which shall involve a minimum expenditure of $3,000
 for a unit, including its prorated share of work to be accomplished on
 common areas or systems.';
 (2) by inserting after the period at the end the following new sentence:
 `In order to maximize the availability of low-income housing, in providing
 assistance under this paragraph, the Secretary shall include in any
 calculation or determination regarding the amount of the assistance to
 be made available the extent to which any proceeds are available from any
 tax credits provided under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
 (or from any syndication of such credits) with respect to the housing.'; and
 (3) by inserting after the period at the end (as inserted by paragraph
 (2)) the following: `For each fiscal year, the Secretary may not provide
 assistance pursuant to this paragraph to any project for rehabilitation
 of more than 100 units. Assistance pursuant to this paragraph shall be
 allocated according to the formula established pursuant to section 213(d)
 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, and awarded pursuant
 to a competition under such section. The Secretary shall maintain a single
 listing of any assistance provided pursuant to this paragraph, which shall
 include a statement identifying the owner and location of the project to
 which assistance was made, the amount of the assistance, and the number of
 units assisted.'.
Subtitle C--Federal Housing Administration Reforms
SEC. 131. ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
 Title V of the National Housing Act (as amended by the preceding provisions of
 this Act) is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 `SEC. 538. With respect to fiscal year 1989 and for every fiscal year
 thereafter, the Secretary shall make available to the public a financial
 statement of the insurance funds established under this Act that will
 present their financial condition on a cash and accrual basis, consistent
 with generally accepted accounting principles. Each financial statement shall
 be audited by an independent accounting firm selected by the Secretary and
 the results of such audit shall be made available to the public.'.
SEC. 132. CREDIT REVIEWS OF PERSONS ACQUIRING MORTGAGED PROPERTIES UNDER
SINGLE FAMILY PROGRAM FOR LIFE OF MORTGAGE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 203(r) of the National Housing Act is amended--
 (1) by amending the first sentence to read as follows: `The Secretary shall
 take appropriate actions to reduce losses under the single-family mortgage
 insurance programs carried out under this title.'; and
 (2) by amending paragraphs (2) and (3) to read as follows:
 `(2) requiring that at least one person acquiring ownership of a one- to
 four-family residential property encumbered by a mortgage insured under
 this title be determined to be creditworthy under standards prescribed by
 the Secretary, whether or not such person assumes personal liability under
 the mortgage (except that acquisitions by devise or descent shall not be
 subject to this requirement); and
 `(3) in any case where personal liability under a mortgage is assumed,
 requiring that the original mortgagor be advised of the procedures by which
 he or she may be released from liability.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) mortgages insured--
 (A) pursuant to a conditional commitment issued on or after the date of
 the enactment of this Act; or
 (B) in accordance with the direct endorsement program (24 C.F.R. 200.163),
 if the approved underwriter of the mortgage signs the appraisal report for
 the property on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
 (2) the approval of substitute mortgagors, if the original mortgagor was
 subject to such amendments.
 (c) TRANSITION PROVISIONS- Any mortgage insurance provided under title
 II of the National Housing Act as it existed immediately before the date
 of the enactment of this Act, shall continue to be governed (to the extent
 applicable) by the provisions of section 203(r) of the National Housing Act,
 as such section existed immediately before such date.
SEC. 133. REPEAL OF TITLE X LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
 (a) REPEAL- Title X of the National Housing Act is hereby repealed.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- On or after the date of enactment of this Act, no mortgage
 may be insured under title X, as such title existed immediately before such
 date, except pursuant to a commitment to insure made before such date.
 (c) SAVINGS PROVISION- Any contract of insurance entered into under title X
 before the date of enactment of this Act shall be governed by the provisions
 of such title as such title existed immediately before such date.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The National Housing Act is amended--
 (1) in section 1, by striking `X,' each place it appears;
 (2) in section 212(a), by striking the seventh sentence;
 (3) in section 512, by striking `X,' in the first sentence;
 (4) in section 522, by inserting `, as such title existed immediately before
 the date of the enactment of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
 Reform Act of 1989,' after `title X of this Act'; and
 (5) in section 530, by striking `X,'.
SEC. 134. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR IMPROPER DEALER AND LOAN BROKER
PARTICIPATION IN ORIGINATION OF PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT LOANS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2(b) of the National Housing Act is amended by
 adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(7) With respect to the financing of alterations, repairs, and improvements
 to existing structures or the building of new structures as authorized
 under clause (i) of the first sentence of section 2(a), any loan broker (as
 defined by the Secretary) or any other party having a financial interest in
 the making of such a loan or advance of credit or in providing assistance
 to the borrower in preparing the loan application or otherwise assisting
 the borrower in obtaining the loan or advance of credit who knowingly
 (as defined in section 536(g) of this Act) submits to any such financial
 institution or to the Secretary false information shall be subject to a
 civil money penalty in the amount and manner provided under section 536
 with respect to mortgagees and lenders under this Act.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) violations referred to in the amendment that occur on or after the date
 of the enactment of this Act; and
 (2) in the case of a continuing violation (as determined by the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development), any portion of a violation referred to
 in the amendment that occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 135. NOTIFICATION REGARDING SUSPENDED MORTGAGEES.
 Section 203 of the National Housing Act is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subsection:
 `(s) Whenever the Secretary has taken any discretionary action to suspend
 or revoke the approval of any mortgagee to participate in any mortgage
 insurance program under this title, the Secretary shall provide prompt
 notice of the action and a statement of the reasons for the action to--
 `(1) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
 `(2) the chief executive officer of the Federal National Mortgage Association;
 `(3) the chief executive officer of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
 Corporation;
 `(4) the Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration;
 `(5) if the mortgagee is a national bank or District bank, or a subsidiary
 or affiliate of such a bank, the Comptroller of the Currency;
 `(6) if the mortgagee is a State bank that is a member of the Federal
 Reserve System or a subsidiary or affiliate of such a bank, or a bank
 holding company or a subsidiary or affiliate of such a company, the Board
 of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
 `(7) if the mortgagee is a State bank that is not a member of the Federal
 Reserve System or is a subsidiary or affiliate of such a bank, the Board
 of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
 `(8) if the mortgagee is a Federal or State savings association or
 a subsidiary or affiliate of a savings association, the Director of the
 Office of Thrift Supervision.'.
SEC. 136. FHA FORECLOSED PROPERTIES.
 (a) MAINTENANCE- Section 204(a) of the National Housing Act is amended by
 inserting after the period at the end of the third sentence the following
 new sentence: `As a condition of the receipt of such benefits, the mortgagee
 shall maintain or assure the maintenance of the mortgaged property (in
 such manner as the Secretary shall by regulation provide) during the
 period beginning on the taking of the possession or other acquisition of
 the mortgaged property by the mortgagee and ending on conveyance to the
 Secretary or other disposition of the mortgaged property in accordance with
 this section, and funds expended by the mortgagee in meeting such obligation
 shall be included, to the extent provided in this subsection or in subsection
 (k), in debentures or other insurance payment pursuant to this section.'.
 (b) DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES ON CREDIT TERMS- Section 204(g) of the
 National Housing Act is amended by inserting after the period at the end
 of the first sentence the following new sentence: `The Secretary shall,
 by regulation, carry out a program of sales of such properties and shall
 develop and implement appropriate credit terms and standards to be used in
 carrying out the program.'.
SEC. 137. REPORT REGARDING PROVIDING FORECLOSED PROPERTIES TO 1989 DISASTER
VICTIMS.
 (a) HUD-
 (1) STUDY- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall conduct a
 study regarding the feasibility of making available, to low-income persons
 whose homes in areas declared by the President as disaster areas as a result
 of hurricane Hugo or the Loma Prieta earthquake during 1989 were destroyed by
 such disasters, any available properties (including multifamily properties)
 owned by the Secretary.
 (2) REPORT- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit to
 the Congress, not later than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this Act, a report regarding the results
 and conclusions of the study under paragraph (1), together with any
 recommendations for legislation regarding providing such property.
 (b) FARMERS HOME ADMINISTRATION- The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a
 study regarding the feasibility of making available, as provided in subsection
 (a)(1), any available properties (including multifamily properties) owned
 by the Secretary through the Farmers Home Administration and shall submit
 a report regarding such study as provided in subsection (a)(2).
 (c) CONSULTATION- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
 the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult in conducting the studies
 under subsections (a) and (b) and may submit a single report meeting the
 requirements of subsections (a)(2) and (b).
SEC. 138. REPORT REGARDING ACTIONS TO IMPROVE DIRECT ENDORSEMENT PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- With respect to the direct endorsement program in connection
 with single-family mortgage insurance under title II of the National Housing
 Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report describing any
 actions the Secretary determines are necessary to take, to--
 (1) improve monitoring and supervision under the program;
 (2) reduce defaults under the program; and
 (3) decrease the potential for fraud under the program.
 (b) TIME OF SUBMISSION- The Secretary shall submit the report under subsection
 (a) to the Congress not later than the expiration of the 6-month period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 139. CO-INSURANCE AMENDMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 244 of the National Housing Act is amended by adding
 at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(i) The Secretary shall, by January 15 and July 15 of each year (1) review
 the adequacy of capital and other requirements for mortgagees under this
 section, (2) assess the compliance by mortgagees with such requirements,
 and (3) make such adjustment to such requirements as the Secretary, after
 providing opportunity for hearing, determines to be appropriate to improve
 the long-term financial soundness of the Federal Housing Administration
 funds. Such requirements shall include the minimum capital or net worth of
 mortgagees; the ratio that mortgagees shall maintain between the mortgagee's
 capital and the volume of mortgages co-insured by such mortgagee; and such
 other requirements as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to ensure
 the long-term financial soundness of the Federal Housing Administration
 funds. The Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
 Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
 Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the review and assessment
 under the previous sentence, and an explanation of the Secretary's reasons
 for making any adjustment in requirements authorized under this section.'.
 (b) REPORT- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit
 to the Congress not later than April 1, 1990, a report on the disposition
 of coinsured multifamily housing projects held by the Government National
 Mortgage Association. The report shall include a description of the guidelines
 governing the disposition of such properties, particularly as such guidelines
 relate to the objectives of--
 (1) minimizing losses to the Federal Government;
 (2) preserving the projects in decent, safe, and sanitary condition; and
 (3) protecting lower-income tenants residing in such projects.
The report shall also describe the status of such multifamily housing
projects, including the name, address, and size of each project, and the
date and conditions of any foreclosure sale.
SEC. 140. FHA MANAGEMENT.
 Section 4 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as subsections (c),
 (d), and (e), respectively; and
 (2) by redesignating the second sentence in subsection (a) as subsection (b)
 and adding at the end thereof the following: `The Secretary shall ensure,
 to the extent practicable, that managers of Federal Housing Administration
 programs, at each level of the Department, shall be accountable for program
 operation, risk management, management of cash and other Federal assets,
 and program financing related to activities over which such managers have
 responsibility.'.
SEC. 141. CONTRACTING FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.
 Section 7(e) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act is amended
 by adding at the end thereof the following: `The Secretary is authorized
 to enter into contracts with private companies for the provision of such
 managerial support to the Federal Housing Administration as the Secretary
 determines to be appropriate, including but not limited to the management
 of insurance risk and the improvement of the delivery of mortgage insurance.'.
SEC. 142. FHA OPERATIONS.
  Section 202 of the National Housing Act is amended by--
 (1) striking the heading `MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE FUND' and inserting
 `FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION OPERATIONS';
 (2) striking `SEC. 202.' and inserting: `SEC. 202. (a) MUTUAL MORTGAGE
 INSURANCE FUND- '; and
 (3) adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
 `(b) ADVISORY BOARD- There is created a Federal Housing Administration
 Advisory Board (`Board') that shall review operation of the Federal Housing
 Administration, including the activities of the Mortgagee Review Board, and
 shall provide advice to the Federal Housing Commissioner with respect to the
 formulation of general policies of the Federal Housing Administration and such
 other matters as the Federal Housing Commissioner may deem appropriate. The
 Advisory Board shall, in all other respects, be subject to the provisions
 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
 `(1) The Advisory Board shall be composed of 15 members to be appointed
 from among individuals who have substantial expertise and broad experience
 in housing and mortgage lending of whom--
 `(A) 9 shall be appointed by the Secretary;
 `(B) 3 shall be appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
 the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of the Committee on Banking,
 Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
 `(C) 3 shall be appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
 the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development of the Committee on
 Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives.
 `(2) Membership on the Advisory Board shall include--
 `(A) not less than 4 persons with distinguished private sector careers in
 housing finance, lending, management, development or insurance;
 `(B) not less than 4 persons with outstanding reputations as licensed
 actuaries, experts in actuarial science, or economics related to housing;
 `(C) not less than 4 persons with backgrounds of leadership in representing
 the interests of housing consumers;
 `(D) not less than 1 person with significant experience and a distinguished
 reputation for work in the enforcement, advocacy, or development of fair
 housing or civil rights legislation; and
 `(E) not less than 1 person with a background of leadership representing
 rural housing interests.
 `(3) Members of the Advisory Board shall be selected to ensure, to the
 greatest extent practicable, geographical representation or every region
 of the country.
 `(4) Not more than 8 members of the Advisory Board may be from any one
 political party.
 `(5) Membership of the Advisory Board shall not include any person who,
 during the previous 24-month period, was required to register with the
 Secretary under section 112(c) of the Department of Housing and Urban
 Development Reform Act of 1989 or employed a person for purposes that
 required such person to so register.
 `(6) Of the members of the Advisory Board first appointed, 5 shall have
 terms of l year, and 5 shall have terms of 2 years. Their successors and
 all other appointees shall have terms of 3 years.
 `(7) The Advisory Board is empowered to confer with, request information of,
 and make recommendations to the Federal Housing Commissioner. The Commissioner
 shall promptly provide the Advisory Board with such information as the
 Board determines to be necessary to carry out its review of the activities
 and policies of the Federal Housing Administration.
 `(8) The Board shall, not later than December 31 of each year, submit to the
 Secretary and the Congress a report of its assessment of the activities of
 the Federal Housing Administration, including the soundness of underwriting
 procedures, the adequacy of information systems, the appropriateness of
 staffing patterns, the effectiveness of the Mortgagee Review Board, and
 other matters related to the Federal Housing Administration's ability to
 serve the nation's homebuyers and renters. Such report shall contain the
 Board's recommendations for improvement and include any minority views.
 `(9) The Board shall meet in Washington, D.C., not less than twice annually,
 or more frequently if requested by the Federal Housing Commissioner or
 a majority of the members. The Board shall elect a chair, vice-chair and
 secretary and adopt methods of procedure. The Board may establish committees
 and subcommittees as needed.
 `(10) Subject to the provisions of Section 7 of the Federal Advisory
 Committee Act, all members of the Board may be compensated and shall
 be entitled to reimbursement from the Department for traveling expenses
 incurred in attendance at meetings of the Board.
 `(c) Mortgagee Review Board-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established within the Federal Housing
 Administration the Mortgagee Review Board (`Board'). The Board is empowered to
 initiate the issuance of a letter of reprimand, the probation, suspension or
 withdrawal of any mortgagee found to be engaging in activities in violation
 of Federal Housing Administration requirements or the nondiscrimination
 requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act,
 or Executive Order 11063.
 `(2) COMPOSITION- The Board shall consist of--
 `(A) the Assistant Secretary of Housing/Federal Housing Commissioner;
 `(B) the General Counsel of the Department;
 `(C) the President of the Government National Mortgage Association;
 `(D) the Assistant Secretary for Administration;
 `(E) the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing Enforcement (in cases involving
 violations of nondiscrimination requirements); and
 `(F) the Chief Financial Officer of the Department;
or their designees.
 `(3) ACTIONS AUTHORIZED- When any report, audit, investigation, or other
 information before the Board discloses that a basis for an administrative
 action against a mortgagee exists, the Board shall take one of the following
 administrative actions:
 `(A) LETTER OF REPRIMAND- The Board may issue a letter of reprimand only
 once to a mortgagee without taking action under subparagraphs (B), (C), or
 (D) of this section. A letter of reprimand shall explain the violation and
 describe actions the mortgagee should take to correct the violation.
 `(B) PROBATION- The Board may place a mortgagee on probation for a specified
 period of time not to exceed 6 months for the purpose of evaluating the
 mortgagee's compliance with Federal Housing Administration requirements, the
 Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, Executive Order 11063,
 or orders of the Board. During the probation period, the Board may impose
 reasonable additional requirements on a mortgagee including supervision of
 the mortgagee's activities by the Federal Housing Administration, periodic
 reporting to the Federal Housing Commissioner, or submission to Federal
 Housing Administration audits of internal financial statements, audits by
 an independent certified public accountant or other audits.
 `(C) SUSPENSION- The Board may issue an order suspending a mortgagee's
 approval for doing business with the Federal Housing Administration if there
 exists adequate evidence of a violation or violations and continuation
 of the mortgagee's approval, pending or at the completion of any audit,
 investigation, or other review, or such administrative or other legal
 proceedings as may ensue, would not be in the public interest or in the best
 interests of the Department. A suspension shall last for not less than 6
 months. During the period of suspension, the Federal Housing Administration
 shall not commit to insure any mortgage originated by the suspended mortgagee.
 `(D) WITHDRAWAL- The Board may issue an order withdrawing a mortgagee if the
 Board has made a determination of a serious violation or repeated violations
 by the mortgagee. The Board shall determine the terms of such withdrawal,
 but the term shall be not less than 1 year. Where the Board has determined
 that the violation is egregious or willful, the withdrawal shall be permanent.
 `(E) SETTLEMENTS- The Board may at any time enter into a settlement agreement
 with a mortgagee to resolve any outstanding grounds for an action. Agreements
 may include provisions such as--
 `(i) cessation of any violation;
 `(ii) correction or mitigation of the effects of any violation;
 `(iii) repayment of any sums of money wrongfully or incorrectly paid
 to the mortgagee by a mortgagor, by a seller or by the Federal Housing
 Administration;
 `(iv) actions to collect sums of money wrongfully or incorrectly paid by
 the mortgagee to a third party;
 `(v) indemnification of the Federal Housing Administration for mortgage
 insurance claims on mortgages originated in violation of Federal Housing
 Administration requirements;
 `(vi) modification of the length of the penalty imposed; or
 `(vii) implementation of other corrective measures acceptable to the
 Secretary.
Material failure to comply with the provisions of a settlement agreement
shall be sufficient cause for suspension or withdrawal.
 `(4) Notice and hearing-
 `(A) The Board shall issue a written notice to the mortgagee at least 30
 days prior to taking any action against the mortgagee under subparagraph (B),
 (C), or (D) of paragraph (3). The notice shall state the specific violations
 which have been alleged, and shall direct the mortgagee to reply in writing
 to the Board within 30 days. If the mortgagee fails to reply during such
 period, the Board may make a determination without considering any comments
 of the mortgagee.
 `(B) If the Board takes action against a mortgagee under subparagraph (B),
 (C), or (D) of paragraph (3), the Board shall promptly notify the mortgagee
 in writing of the nature, duration, and specific reasons for the action. If,
 within 30 days of receiving the notice, the mortgagee requests a hearing,
 the Board shall hold a hearing on the record regarding the violations within
 30 days of receiving the request. If a mortgagee fails to request a hearing
 within such 30-day period, the right of the mortgagee to a hearing shall
 be considered waived.
 `(C) In any case in which the notification of the Board does not result
 in a hearing (including any settlement by the Board and a mortgagee),
 any information regarding the nature of the violation and the resolution
 of the action shall be available to the public.
 `(5) PUBLICATION- The Secretary shall establish and publish in the Federal
 Register a description of and the cause for administrative action against
 a mortgagee.
 `(6) Cease-and-desist orders-
 `(A) Whenever the Secretary, upon request of the Mortgagee Review Board,
 determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that a mortgagee is
 violating, has violated, or is about to violate, a law, rule or regulation
 or any condition imposed in writing by the Secretary or the Board, and that
 such violation could result in significant cost to the Federal Government or
 the public, the Secretary may issue a temporary order requiring the mortgagee
 to cease and desist from any such violation and to take affirmative action to
 prevent such violation or a continuation of such violation pending completion
 of proceedings of the Board with respect to such violation. Such order shall
 include a notice of charges in respect thereof and shall become effective upon
 service to the mortgagee. Such order shall remain effective and enforceable
 for a period not to exceed 30 days pending the completion of proceedings of
 the Board with respect to such violation, unless such order is set aside,
 limited, or suspended by a court in proceedings authorized by subparagraph
 (B) of this paragraph. The Board shall provide the mortgagee an opportunity
 for a hearing on the record, as soon as practicable but not later than 20
 days after the temporary cease-and-desist order has been served.
 `(B) Within 10 days after the mortgagee has been served with a temporary
 cease-and-desist order, the mortgagee may apply to the United States district
 court for the judicial district in which the home office of the mortgagee is
 located, or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
 for an injunction setting aside, limiting of suspending the enforcement,
 operation, or effectiveness of such order pending the completion of the
 administrative proceedings pursuant to the notice of charges served upon the
 mortgagee, and such court shall have jurisdiction to issue such injunction.
 `(C) In the case of violation or threatened violation of, or failure to
 obey, a temporary cease-and-desist order issued pursuant to this paragraph,
 the Secretary may apply to the United States district court, or the United
 States court of any territory, within the jurisdiction of which the home
 office of the mortgagee is located, for an injunction to enforce such order,
 and, if the court shall determine that there has been such violation or
 threatened violation or failure to obey, it shall be the duty of the court
 to issue such injunction.
 `(D) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `mortgagee' means a mortgagee,
 a branch office or subsidiary of a mortgagee, or a director, officer,
 employee, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs
 of such mortgagee.
 `(7) REPORT REQUIRED- The Board, in consultation with the Federal Housing
 Administration Advisory Board, shall annually recommend to the Secretary
 such amendments to statute or regulation as the Board determines to be
 appropriate to ensure the long term financial strength of the Federal
 Housing Administration fund and the adequate support for home mortgage credit.
 `(d) Coordination of GNMA and FHA Withdrawal Action-
 `(1) Whenever the Federal Housing Administration or Government National
 Mortgage Association initiates proceedings that could lead to withdrawing
 the mortgagee from participating in the program, the initiating agency shall--
 `(A) within 24 hours notify the other agency in writing of the action taken;
 `(B) provide to the other agency the factual basis for the action taken; and
 `(C) if a mortgagee is withdrawn, publish its decision in the Federal
 Register.
 `(2) Within 60 days of receipt of a notification of action that could lead
 to withdrawal under subsection (1), the Federal Housing Administration or
 the Government National Mortgage Association shall--
 `(A) conduct and complete its own investigation;
 `(B) provide written notification to the other agency of its decision,
 including the factual basis for its decision; and
 `(C) if a mortgagee is withdrawn, publish its decision in the Federal
 Register.
 `(e) APPRAISAL STANDARDS- (1) The Secretary shall prescribe standards
 for the appraisal of all property to be insured by the Federal Housing
 Administration. Such appraisals shall be performed in accordance with
 uniform standards, by individuals who have demonstrated competence and whose
 professional conduct is subject to effective supervision. These standards
 shall require at a minimum--
 `(A) that the appraisals of properties to be insured by the Federal Housing
 Administration shall be performed in accordance with generally accepted
 appraisal standards, such as the appraisal standards promulgated by the
 Appraisal Foundation a not-for-profit corporation established on November
 30, 1987 under the laws of Illinois; and
 `(B) that each appraisal be a written statement used in connection with a
 real estate transaction that is independently an impartially prepared by a
 licensed or certified appraiser setting forth an opinion of defined value
 of an adequately described property as of a specific date, supported by
 presentation and analysis of relevant market information.
 `(2) The Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions
 Examination Council shall include the Secretary or his designee.'.
SEC. 143. ELIMINATION OF PRIVATE INVESTOR-OWNERS FROM SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE
INSURANCE PROGRAM.
 (a) RETENTION OF PUBLIC AND NONPROFIT INVESTOR OWNERS- Section 203(g)(3)
 of the National Housing Act is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting
 the following: `, or any other State or local government or an agency
 thereof;'; and
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting
 the following: `, or other private nonprofit organization that is exempt from
 taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and
 intends to sell or lease the mortgaged property to low or moderate-income
 persons, as determined by the Secretary;'.
 (b) ELIMINATION OF PRIVATE INVESTOR-OWNERS- Section 203(g) of the National
 Housing Act, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended--
 (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3),
 respectively.
 (c) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by this section shall apply only
 with respect to--
 (1) mortgages insured--
 (A) pursuant to a conditional commitment issued on or after the date of
 the enactment of this Act; or
 (B) in accordance with the direct endorsement program, if the approved
 underwriter of the mortgagee signs the appraisal report for the property
 on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
 (2) the approval of substitute mortgagors, if the original mortgagor was
 subject to such amendments.
 (d) TRANSITION PROVISIONS- Any mortgage insurance provided under title II
 of the National Housing Act, as it existed immediately before the date of
 the enactment of this Act, shall continue to be governed (to the extent
 applicable) by the provisions amended by subsections (a) and (b) as such
 provisions existed immediately before such date.
TITLE II--HOUSING PRESERVATION
SEC. 201. LIMITATIONS ON PREPAYMENT.
 Section 203(a) of the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987
 is amended by striking `upon the expiration of the 2-year period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this Act' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `on September 30, 1990'.
SEC. 202. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY TO VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF INSURANCE.
 (a) GENERAL PREPAYMENT LIMITATION- Section 221(a) of the Emergency Low
 Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 is amended by adding at the
 end the following new sentence: `An insurance contract with respect to
 eligible low-income housing may be terminated pursuant to section 229 of
 the National Housing Act only in accordance with a plan of action approved
 by the Secretary under this subtitle.
 (b) ALTERNATIVE PREPAYMENT LIMITATION- Section 221(b) of the Emergency Low
 Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 is amended--
 (1) by striking the first comma and inserting `(1)'; and
 (2) by inserting before the period at the end of the sentence the following:
 `, and (2) an insurance contract with respect to eligible low-income housing
 located in the geographic area subject to the jurisdiction of such court
 may not be terminated pursuant to section 229 of the National Housing Act
 during the 2-year period following the date of such invalidation'.
 (c) NOTICE OF INTENT- Section 222 of the Emergency Low Income Housing
 Preservation Act of 1987 is amended by inserting after `agreement' the
 following: `(including a request to terminate the insurance contract pursuant
 to section 229 of the National Housing Act)'.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) Section 250(a) of the National Housing Act is amended by inserting after
 `project' the second place it appears the following: `or permit a termination
 of an insurance contract pursuant to section 229 of this Act'.
 (2) Section 229 of the National Housing Act is amended by inserting after
 `section 2' the following: `and except as specified under section 250 of
 this Act and subtitle B of the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation
 Act of 1987,'.
SEC. 203. INCENTIVES TO EXTEND LOW-INCOME USE.
 (a) Loans-
 (1) ACQUISITIONS BY PUBLIC ENTITIES- Section 236(b) of the National Housing
 Act is amended by inserting `public entity,' before `or a cooperative
 housing corporation'.
 (2) CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT LOANS- (A) Section 201(m)(2)(B) of the Housing and
 Community Development Amendments of 1978 is amended by striking `Reduce'
 and inserting `Notwithstanding subsection (l)(2)(B), reduce'.
 (B) Section 201(m)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments
 of 1978 is amended--
 (i) by striking `not subject to paragraph (1)';
 (ii) by inserting after `residents' the second place it appears the following:
 `, or where appropriate to implement a plan of action under subtitle B of
 the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987';
 (iii) adding a new subparagraph after subparagraph (D):
 `(E) Permit repayment of the debt service to be deferred as long as the low
 and moderate income character of the project is maintained in accordance
 with subsection (d).'.
 (b) APPROVAL OF PLAN OF ACTION-
 (1) TENANT PROFILE- Section 225(b)(3)(F)(i) of the Emergency Low Income
 Housing Preservation Act of 1987 is amended by inserting before the semicolon
 the following: `(based on the area median income limits established by the
 Secretary in February, 1987), or the date the plan of action is approved,
 whichever date results in the highest proportion of very low-income families,
 except that this limitation shall not prohibit a higher proportion of very
 low-income families from occupying the housing'.
 (2) SECTION 8 RENTAL ASSISTANCE- Section 225 of the Emergency Low Income
 Housing Preservation Act of 1987 is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsections:
 `(c) SECTION 8 RENTAL ASSISTANCE- When providing rental assistance under
 section 8, the Secretary may enter into a contract with an owner, contingent
 upon the future availability of appropriations for the purpose of renewing
 expiring contracts for rental assistance as provided in appropriations Acts,
 to extend the term of such rental assistance for such additional period or
 periods as is necessary to carry out an approved plan of action. The contract
 and the approved plan of action shall provide that, if the Secretary is
 unable to extend the term of such rental assistance or is unable to develop
 a revised package of incentives providing benefits to the owner comparable
 to those received under the original approved plan of action, the Secretary,
 upon the request of the owner, shall take the following actions (subject
 to the limitations under the following paragraphs):--
 `(1) Modification of the binding commitments made pursuant to subsection
 (b) that are dependent on such rental assistance.
 `(2) If action under paragraph (1) is not feasible, release of an owner from
 the binding commitments made pursuant to subsection (b) that are dependent
 on such rental assistance.
 `(3) If action under paragraphs (1) and (2) would, in the determination of
 the Secretary, result in the default of the insured loan, approval of the
 revised plan of action, notwithstanding subsection (a), that involves the
 termination of low-income affordability restrictions.
At least 30 days prior to making a request under the preceding sentence,
an owner shall notify the Secretary of the owner's intention to submit the
request. The Secretary shall have a period of 90 days following receipt of
such notice to take action to extend the rental assistance contract and to
continue the binding commitments under subsection (b).
 `(d) RELOCATION OF DISPLACED TENANTS- Any plan of action shall specify actions
 that the Secretary and the owner shall take to ensure that any tenants,
 displaced as a result of a plan of action approved under subsection (a)
 or as a result of modifications taken pursuant to subsection (c), are
 relocated to affordable housing.'.
 (c) INSURANCE FOR SECOND MORTGAGE FINANCING-
 (1) UNDERWRITING- Section 241(f)(2) of the National Housing Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following sentence:
`When underwriting an equity loan under this subsection, the Secretary may
assume that the rental assistance provided in accordance with an approved
plan of action under section 225(b) of the Emergency Low Income Housing
Preservation Act of 1987 will be extended for the full term of the contract
entered into under section 225(c) of that Act. The Secretary may accelerate
repayment of a loan under this section in the event rental assistance is
not extended under section 225(c) of that Act or the Secretary is unable
to develop a revised package of incentives to the owner comparable to those
received under the original approved plan of action.'.
 (2) ACQUISITIONS BY PUBLIC ENTITIES- Section 241(f)(3) of the National
 Housing Act is amended by inserting `public entity,' after `A'.
 (d) LIMITATIONS ON FORECLOSURE- Section 241(f) of the National Housing Act
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) If the Secretary is unable to extend the term of rental assistance
 for the full term of the contract entered into under section 225(c) of the
 Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987, the Secretary is
 authorized to take such actions as the Secretary deems to be appropriate
 to avoid default, avoid disruption of the sound ownership and management
 of the property or otherwise minimize the cost to the Federal Government.'.
SEC. 204. PRESERVATION.
 (a) MANAGEMENT AND PRESERVATION OF HUD-OWNED AND HUD-HELD MULTIFAMILY
 HOUSING PROJECTS- Section 203(k) of the Housing and Community Development
 Amendments of 1978 is amended to read as follows: `The Secretary shall
 annually submit to the Congress on June 1 of each year a report describing
 the status of multifamily housing projects that are subject to subsection
 (a), which report shall include--
 `(1) the name, address, and size of each project;
 `(2) the nature and date of assignment;
 `(3) the status of the mortgage;
 `(4) the physical condition of the project;
 `(5) the proportion of units in a project that are vacant;
 `(6) the date on which the Secretary became mortgagee in possession or the
 date of imposition of any receivership;
 `(7) the date and conditions of any foreclosure sale;
 `(8) the date of acquisition by the Secretary; and
 `(9) the date and conditions of any property disposition sale.
The report shall describe the activities carried out under subsection (e)
during the preceding year, and shall contain a description and assessment of
the rules, guidelines and practices governing the Department's assumption
of management responsibilities in multifamily housing projects subject to
subsection (a) that are owned by the Secretary (or for which the Secretary is
mortgagee in possession) as well as the steps that the Secretary has taken
or plans to take to expedite the assumption of management responsibilities
of the Department and improve the management performance of the Department,
including the expedited repair and turnover of vacant units.'.
 (b) REHABILITATION LOANS- Section 241 of the National Housing Act is amended
 by inserting the following after subsection (f):
 `(g)(1) When underwriting a rehabilitation loan under this section in
 connection with eligible multifamily housing, the Secretary may assume that
 any rental assistance provided for purposes of servicing the additional debt
 will be extended for the term of the rehabilitation loan. The Secretary shall
 exercise prudent underwriting practices in insuring rehabilitation loans under
 this section. For purposes of this subsection, the term `eligible multifamily
 housing' means any housing financed by a loan or mortgage that is--
 `(A) insured or held by the Secretary under section 221(d)(3) of the
 National Housing Act and assisted under section 101 of the Housing and Urban
 Development Act of 1965 or section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
 `(B) insured or held by the Secretary and bears interest at a rate determined
 under the proviso of section 221(d)(5) of the National Housing Act; or
 `(C) insured, assisted or held by the Secretary under section 236 of the
 National Housing Act.
 `(2) A mortgagee approved by the Secretary may not withhold consent to a
 rehabilitation loan insured in connection with eligible multifamily housing
 on which that mortgagee holds a mortgage.'.
 (c) CAPITAL ASSESSMENT STUDY- (1) The Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development shall conduct a study to determine the physical renovation
 needs of the Nation's federally-assisted multifamily housing inventory
 that is distressed and to estimate the cost of correcting deficiencies
 and subsequently maintaining that inventory in adequate physical
 condition. The Secretary shall establish criteria to determine what
 housing qualifies as distressed and such criteria shall include factors
 such as serious deficiencies in the original design, deferred maintenance,
 physical deterioration or obsolescence of major systems and other serious
 deficiencies in the physical plant of a project. The study shall examine and
 assess the adequacy of existing tools that are available to the Secretary
 for modernization efforts including--
 (A) mortgage insurance for rehabilitation loans under section 241 of the
 National Housing Act;
 (B) operating assistance and capital improvement loans under section 201
 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978 (the `Flexible
 Subsidy Program'); and
 (C) rental assistance under section 8.
The study shall also examine and assess the effectiveness of sanctions
that are now available to the Secretary. Not later than one year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a
detailed report setting forth the findings of the Secretary as a result of the
study. The Secretary shall submit to the Congress an interim report containing
the information required under paragraph (2) not later than April 1, 1990.
 (2) The examination and assessment of the Flexible Subsidy Program required
 by paragraph (1) shall include--
 (A) an accounting of all applications that have been approved or rejected
 since 1980;
 (B) an analysis of all applications that have not been acted upon since
 1980 including the length of time such applications have been pending,
 the amount of assistance requested, and the number of units affected;
 (C) an estimate of the funding that will be made available to the Flexible
 Subsidy Fund under section 201(j) of the Housing and Community Development
 Amendments of 1978 in the next three fiscal years; and
 (D) an assessment of what additional resources will be needed for the Fund
 in the next three fiscal years.
 (3) The term `federally-assisted multifamily housing' means housing financed
 by a loan or mortgage that is--
 (A) insured or held by the Secretary under section 221(d)(3) of the
 National Housing Act and assisted under section 101 of the Housing and Urban
 Development Act of 1965 or section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
 (B) insured or held by the Secretary and bears interest at a rate determined
 under the proviso of section 221(d)(5) of the National Housing Act; or
 (C) insured, assisted or held by the Secretary under section 236 of the
 National Housing Act.
SEC. 205. REPORT ON PROPERTY DISPOSITION DEMONSTRATION.
 The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit to the Congress,
 not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a report
 describing the steps that have been and will be taken to implement section
 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 including a detailed
 description of--
 (1) the efforts taken by the Secretary to solicit participants in the
 demonstration;
 (2) any applications, responses or other expressions of interest submitted
 by State housing finance agencies;
 (3) the reasons for the Secretary's refusal, as of the date of enactment
 of this Act, to approve such applications; and
 (4) the steps that the Secretary has taken and plans to take to ensure that
 the demonstration is implemented in at least one State within 90 days after
 the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 206. PROHIBITION ON PREPAYMENT OF NEW RURAL HOUSING LOANS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 502(c)(1) of the Housing Act of 1949 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(A)' after `(c)(1)';
 (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii),
 respectively; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) The Secretary may not accept an offer to prepay, or request refinancing
 in accordance with subsection (b)(3) of, any loan made or insured under
 section 515 pursuant to a contract entered into on or after the date of
 the enactment of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform
 Act of 1989.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 502(c)(1) of the Housing Act of 1949
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `after the date of enactment of this subsection,' and
 inserting the following: `after December 21, 1979, but before the date of
 the enactment of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform
 Act of 1989,'; and
 (2) by striking `after the date of enactment of this subsection and' and
 inserting the following: `after December 21, 1979, but before the date of
 the enactment of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform
 Act of 1989, and'.
SEC. 207. EQUITY TAKEOUT INCENTIVE FOR NEW RURAL HOUSING LOANS.
 Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsection:
 `(t) Equity Takeout Loans-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized to guarantee an equity loan
 (in the form of a supplemental loan) to an owner of housing financed with a
 loan made or insured under subsection (b), only if the Secretary determines,
 after taking into account local market conditions, that there is reasonable
 likelihood that the housing will continue as decent, safe, and sanitary
 housing for the remaining life of the original loan on the project made or
 insured under subsection (b) and that such an equity loan is--
 `(A) necessary to provide a fair return on the owner's investment in the
 housing;
 `(B) the least costly alternative for the Federal Government that is
 consistent with carrying out the purposes of this subsection; and
 `(C) would not impose an undue hardship on tenants or an unreasonable cost
 to the Federal Government.
The amount of loans guaranteed under this subsection shall be subject to
limits provided in appropriations Acts.
 `(2) TIMING- The Secretary is authorized to guarantee an equity loan under
 this subsection after the expiration of the 20-year period beginning on
 the date that an existing loan under subsection (b) of this section was
 made or insured. Not more than one equity loan under this subsection may
 be provided for any project.
 `(3) AMOUNT OF THE TAKEOUT- The amount of an equity loan under this
 subsection shall not exceed the difference between the outstanding principal
 on debt secured by the project and 90 percent of the appraised value of
 the project. The appraised value of the project shall be determined by 2
 independent appraisers, 1 of whom shall be selected by the Secretary and 1
 of whom shall be selected by the owner. If the 2 appraisers fail to agree on
 the value of the project, the Secretary and the owner shall jointly select
 a third appraiser whose appraisal shall be binding on the Secretary and the
 owner. The amount of the equity loan shall not exceed 30 percent of the amount
 of the original loan on the project made or insured under subsection (b).
 `(4) RESERVE ACCOUNT PAYMENTS- For each loan made or insured under subsection
 (b) pursuant to a contract entered into after the date this subsection
 takes effect, the owner shall make monthly payments from project income
 to the Secretary for deposit in a reserve account for the project. Such
 monthly payments shall, in the first year after the loan is made or insured,
 equal $2 for each unit in the project, and shall increase by $2 annually
 until the expiration of the 20-year period beginning on the date that the
 loan was made or insured, except that such annual increases shall not be
 required for a unit occupied by a low-income family or individual who is
 paying more than 30 percent of the family's or individual's adjusted income
 in rent. The rent on a unit for which payment is made under this paragraph
 shall be increased by the amount of such payment.
 `(5) Reserve account-
 `(A) Payments under paragraph (4) shall be deposited in an interest bearing
 account that the Secretary shall establish for the project.
 `(B) The Secretary shall make available amounts in the reserve account
 only for payments of principal and interest on an equity loan under this
 subsection. Such payments shall be in amounts necessary to ensure that rent
 payments made by low-income families residing in the housing do not exceed
 the maximum rent under section 521(a)(2)(A);
 `(C) Any payments to the account, and interest on such payments, not expended
 in the project from which such payments were made, shall be used in other
 projects to make payments of principal and interest on an equity loan under
 this subsection. Such payments shall be in amounts necessary to ensure that
 rent payments made by low-income families residing in the housing do not
 exceed the maximum rent under section 521(a)(2)(A).
 `(D) The Secretary shall make payments from accounts under this paragraph
 only to the extent provided in appropriations Acts.
 `(6) SUBMISSION OF PLAN- An owner requesting an equity loan under this
 subsection shall submit a plan acceptable to the Secretary to ensure that
 the cost of amortizing an equity loan under paragraph (1) does not result
 in the displacement of very-low-income tenants or substantially alter the
 income mix of the tenants in the project.
 `(7) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue final regulations within 180
 days from the date of enactment of this subsection.
 `(8) EFFECTIVE DATE- The requirements of this subsection shall apply to any
 applications for assistance under this section on or after the expiration
 of 180 days from the date of enactment of this subsection.'.
TITLE III--HOUSING PROGRAM EXTENSIONS AND CHANGES
SEC. 301. FLEXIBLE SUBSIDY PROGRAM.
 Section 236(f)(3) of the National Housing Act is amended by striking
 `September 30, 1989' and inserting `September 30, 1991'.
SEC. 302. CONTINUATION OF PUBLIC HOUSING ECONOMIC RENT.
 Section 3(a)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `3-year' and inserting `5-year'; and
 (2) in subparagraph (B)--
 (A) by striking `3-year' and inserting `5-year'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following: `The terms of all ceiling rents
 established prior to the date of enactment of the Department of Housing
 and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 shall be extended for the 5-year
 period beginning on such date of enactment.'.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF RECIPROCITY IN APPROVAL OF HOUSING SUBDIVISIONS AMONG
FEDERAL AGENCIES.
 Section 535(b) of the Housing Act of 1949 is amended by striking `1-year
 period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988' and inserting the following:
 `6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Department
 of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989'.
SEC. 304. HODAG AMENDMENT.
 Section 17(d) of the United States Housing Act of 1987 is amended as follows:
 `(11) Sale of units-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of a
 project assisted by a development grant awarded pursuant to this section where
 (i) the grant was originally approved for a nonprofit cooperative, and (ii)
 a majority of the units in the approved project have 3 or more bedrooms,
 the nonprofit owner of such project may sell such units for fee simple or
 condominium ownership if the requirements of subparagraph (B) are met.
 `(B) REQUIREMENTS- The requirements of this subparagraph are that--
 `(i) at least 80 percent of the units in the project are initially sold to
 households with incomes that do not exceed 80 percent of the median income
 of the area;
 `(ii) housing cost to such households shall be initially calculated at not
 to exceed 30 percent of actual household income;
 `(iii) each purchaser agrees that, during the 20-year period following the
 initial sale, any subsequent resale of the unit shall be to a purchaser
 whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area; and
 `(iv) after the 20-year period described in clause (iii), the pro rata
 grant attributable to a unit, which shall be secured by a deed of trust on
 the unit, shall be repaid upon any sale, lease, or transfer of any interest
 in the unit except for a sale of the unit to a purchaser whose income does
 not exceed 80 percent of the median income of the area.
 `(C) REFINANCING- A refinancing of the unit involving an equity withdrawal
 shall require a repayment to the extent of the withdrawal not to exceed
 the pro rata amount of the grant attributable to the unit. A refinancing
 unrelated to a sale, equity withdrawal, lease, or transfer of interest
 shall not require repayment.
 `(D) ADMINISTRATION- A homeowner may request grantee approval of a sale,
 equity withdrawal, or other transfer with postponement of the repayment or
 without full or partial repayment and grantee may approve if the grantee
 determines that--
 `(i) an undue hardship will result from the application of the repayment
 requirement, such as where the proceeds are insufficient to repay the loan
 in full; or
 `(ii) postponing repayment is in the interest of neighborhood growth and
 stability.
 `(E) EFFECT OF REPAYMENT- Upon repayment of the grant, any program
 requirements affecting the unit shall terminate. The grantee shall use
 repayments of the grant for low and moderate income housing as prescribed
 by the Secretary. Notwithstanding any existing project covenants or
 inconsistencies with this section, the Secretary shall take all action
 necessary to implement this paragraph.'.
TITLE IV--RURAL HOUSING
SEC. 401. ACCOUNTABILITY IN AWARDS OF ASSISTANCE; REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
`ACCOUNTABILITY
 `SEC. 536. (a) Notice Regarding Assistance-
 `(1) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY- The Secretary shall publish in
 the Federal Register notice of the availability of any assistance under any
 program or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary under this title.
 `(2) PUBLICATION OF APPLICATION PROCEDURES- The Secretary shall publish
 in the Federal Register a description of the form and procedures by which
 application for the assistance may be made, and any deadlines relating
 to the award or allocation of the assistance. Such description shall be
 sufficient to enable any eligible applicant to apply for such assistance.
 `(3) PUBLICATION OF SELECTION CRITERIA- Not less than 30 days before any
 deadline by which applications or requests for assistance under any program
 or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary must be submitted,
 the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the criteria by which
 selection for the assistance will be made. Such criteria shall include
 any objective measures of housing need, project merit, or efficient use of
 resources that the Secretary determines are appropriate and consistent with
 the statute under which the assistance is made available.
 `(4) DOCUMENTATION OF DECISIONS-
 `(A) The Secretary shall award or allocate assistance only in response
 to a written application in a form approved in advance by the Secretary,
 except where other award or allocation procedures are specified in statute.
 `(B) The Secretary shall ensure that documentation and other information
 regarding each application for assistance is sufficient to indicate the
 basis on which any award or allocation was made or denied. The preceding
 sentence shall apply to--
 `(i) any application for an award or allocation of assistance made by the
 Secretary to a State, unit of general local government, or other recipient
 of assistance, and
 `(ii) any application for a subsequent award or allocation of such assistance
 by such State, unit of general local government or other recipient.
 `(C) The Secretary shall ensure that each application and all related
 documentation and other information referred to in subparagraph (B) is
 readily available for public inspection for a period of not less than 10
 years, beginning not less than 30 days following the date on which the
 award or allocation is made.
 `(5) EMERGENCY EXCEPTION- The Secretary may waive the requirements of
 paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) if the Secretary determines that the waiver
 is required for adequate response to an emergency. Not less than 30 days
 after providing a waiver under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall
 publish in the Federal Register the Secretary's reasons for so doing.
 `(b) DISCLOSURES BY APPLICANTS- The Secretary shall require the disclosure
 of information with respect to any application for assistance under this
 title submitted by any applicant who has received or, in the determination of
 the Secretary, can reasonably be expected to receive assistance under this
 title in excess of $200,000 in the aggregate during any fiscal year. Such
 information shall include the following:
 `(1) OTHER GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE- Information regarding any related
 assistance from the Federal Government, a State, or a unit of general local
 government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, that is expected to
 be made available with respect to the project or activities for which the
 applicant is seeking assistance under this title. Such related assistance
 shall include but not be limited to any loan, grant, guarantee, insurance,
 payment, rebate, subsidy, credit, tax benefit, or any other form of direct
 or indirect assistance.
 `(2) INTERESTED PARTIES- The name and pecuniary interest of any person
 who has a pecuniary interest in the project or activities for which the
 applicant is seeking assistance. Persons with a pecuniary interest in the
 project or activity shall include but not be limited to any developers,
 contractors, and consultants involved in the application for assistance under
 this title or the planning, development, or implementation of the project
 or activity. For purposes of this paragraph, residency of an individual
 in housing for which assistance is being sought shall not, by itself,
 be considered a pecuniary interest.
 `(3) EXPECTED SOURCES AND USES- A report satisfactory to the Secretary of
 the expected sources and uses of funds that are to be made available for
 the project or activity.
 `(c) UPDATING OF DISCLOSURE- During the period when an application is
 pending or assistance is being provided, the applicant shall update the
 disclosure required under the previous subsection within 30 days of any
 substantial change.
 `(d) REGULATION OF LOBBYISTS AND CONSULTANTS-
 `(1) LIMITATION OF FEES- Any person who is engaged for pay or for any
 consideration for the purpose of attempting to influence any award or
 allocation of assistance by the Secretary shall not seek or receive any
 fee that is--
 `(A) based on the amount of assistance or number of units that may be
 provided by the Secretary, or
 `(B) contingent on an award of assistance by the Secretary, except that
 professional services related to a project may be donated in whole or in
 part to a community housing development organization in the event assistance
 for a project is not awarded.
 `(2) REGISTRATION- Any person who will be engaged for pay or for any
 consideration for the purpose of attempting to influence any award or
 allocation of assistance by the Secretary shall, before doing anything in
 furtherance of such object, register by submitting to the Secretary a sworn
 statement containing--
 `(A) such person's name and business address,
 `(B) the nature and duration of any previous Federal employment,
 `(C) the name and address of the person by whom such person is employed,
 and in whose interest such person appears or works,
 `(D) the duration of such employment,
 `(E) how much such person is paid and is to receive,
 `(F) by whom such person is paid or is to be paid,
 `(G) how much such person is to be paid for expenses, and
 `(H) what expenses are to be included.
For purposes of this paragraph, ownership by an individual of a single family
home financed under section 502 does constitute pay or consideration.
 `(3) REPORTING- Each person registering under paragraph (2) shall, between
 the first and tenth day of each calendar quarter, so long as such person's
 activity continues, file with the Secretary a detailed report under oath
 setting forth--
 `(A) all money received and expended by such person during the preceding
 calendar quarter in carrying on such person's work;
 `(B) an identification of the person or persons to whom funds were paid
 and the purposes of such payments;
 `(C) all awards or allocations of assistance under this title that the
 person attempted to influence; and
 `(D) any contacts with any employee of the Department for the purpose
 of attempting to influence any award or allocation of assistance by the
 Secretary.
 `(e) REMEDIES AND PENALTIES-
 `(1) ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES- If the Secretary receives or obtains information
 providing a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of subsection (b),
 (c), or (d) this section has occurred, the Secretary shall--
 `(A) in the case of a selection that has not been made, determine whether
 to terminate the selection process or take other appropriate actions; and
 `(B) in the case of a selection that has been made, determine whether to--
 `(i) void or rescind the selection, subject to review and determination on
 the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 `(ii) impose sanctions upon the violator, including debarment, subject to
 review and determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing;
 `(iii) recapture any funds that have been disbursed;
 `(iv) permit the violating applicant selected to continue to participate
 in the program; or
 `(v) take any other actions that the Secretary considers appropriate.
The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a descriptive statement
of each determination made and action taken under this paragraph.
 `(2) CIVIL PENALTIES- Whoever violates any section of this section shall be
 subject to the imposition of a civil penalty in a civil action brought by
 the United States in an appropriate district court of the United States. A
 civil penalty under this paragraph may not exceed--
 `(A) $100,000 in the case of an individual; or
 `(B) $1,000,000 in the case of an applicant other than an individual.
 `(3) DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES IN INSURANCE FUNDS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, all civil money penalties collected under this section
 shall be deposited in the Rural Housing Insurance Fund.
 `(4) NONEXCLUSIVENESS OF REMEDIES- This subsection may not be construed
 to limit the applicability of any requirements, sanctions, penalties,
 or remedies established under any other law. The Secretary shall not be
 relieved of any obligation to carry out the requirements of this section
 because such other requirements, sanctions, penalties, or remedies apply.
 `(f) LIMITATION OF ASSISTANCE- The Secretary shall certify that assistance
 provided by the Secretary to any housing project shall not be more than is
 necessary to provide affordable housing after taking account of assistance
 from all Federal, State, and local sources. The Secretary shall adjust the
 amount of assistance provided to an applicant to compensate for any changes
 reported under subsection (c).
 `(g) REGULATIONS- Not less than 180 days following enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement this section.
 `(h) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `assistance' means
 any housing grant, loan, guarantee, insurance, rebate, subsidy, tax credit
 benefit, or other form of direct or indirect assistance.
 `(i) REPORT BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall submit to the Congress,
 not later than 180 days following the date of enactment of this section,
 a report describing actions taken to carry out this section, including
 actions to inform and educate officers and employees of the Department of
 Agriculture regarding the provisions of this section.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 536 of the Housing Act of 1949, as added by
 subsection (a), shall take effect on the effective date of regulations
 implementing such section.
SEC. 402. REUSE OF SECTION 515 LOAN AUTHORITY.
 Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended by section 207, is
 amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(u) REUSE OF LOAN AUTHORITY- Loan authority that is obligated under this
 section but that is not expended due to any action that removes the original
 borrower, may be reallocated to a different borrower during the same fiscal
 year in which the loan authority was obligated.'.
TITLE V--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON SEVERELY DISTRESSED PUBLIC HOUSING
SEC. 501. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this title is to establish a National Commission on Severely
 Distressed Public Housing--
 (1) to identify those public housing projects in the Nation that are in a
 severe state of distress;
 (2) to assess the most promising strategies to improve the condition of
 severely distressed public housing projects that have been implemented
 by public housing authorities, other Government agencies at the Federal,
 State, and local level, public housing tenants, and the private sector;
 (3) to develop a national action plan to eliminate by the year 2000 unfit
 living conditions in public housing projects determined by the Commission
 to be the most severely distressed.
SEC. 502. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
 There is established a commission to be known as the National Commission
 on Severely Distressed Public Housing (hereinafter in this title referred
 to as the `Commission').
SEC. 503. MEMBERSHIP OF COMMISSION.
 (a) APPOINTMENT- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 18 members, appointed
 not later than 60 days after amounts are appropriated pursuant to section 506
 or made available from non-Federal sources. The members shall be as follows:
 (A) 6 members to be appointed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development;
 (B) 6 members appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the
 Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of the Committee on Banking,
 Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Chairman and Ranking
 Minority Member of the Subcommittee on VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies
 of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
 (C) 6 members appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the
 Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development of the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Chairman
 and Ranking Minority Member of the Subcommittee on VA, HUD, and Independent
 Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
 (2) The Secretary and the congressional leaders referred to in paragraph
 (1) shall each appoint as member of the Commission--
 (A) 2 individuals who are elected public officials at the Federal, State,
 or local level;
 (B) 2 individuals who are local public housing officials or representatives
 of public housing authorities with experience in eliminating unfit living
 conditions in severely distressed public housing projects;
 (C) 1 individual who is a tenant or a representative of tenants or a tenant
 organization; and
 (D) 1 individual who is a leader of business or labor or is a distinguished
 academic in the field of housing and urban development.
 (b) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among members
 of the Commission.
 (c) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute
 a quorum for the transaction of business.
 (d) VOTING- Each member of the Commission shall be entitled to 1 vote,
 which shall be equal to the vote of every other member of the Commission.
 (e) VACANCIES- Any vacancy on the Commission shall not affect its powers,
 but shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (f) PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL PAY- Members of the Commission shall serve
 without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence,
 and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
 as members of the Commission.
SEC. 504. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) IDENTIFICATION OF SEVERELY DISTRESSED PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS- The
 Commission shall identify those public housing projects that are in a severe
 state of distress, giving special attention to projects that--
 (1) require major redesign to correct serious deficiencies in the original
 design (including inappropriately high population density), deferred
 maintenance, physical deterioration or obsolescence of major systems and
 other deficiencies in the physical plant of the project;
 (2) are occupied predominantly by families with children who are in a
 severe state of distress, characterized by such factors as high rates
 of unemployment, teenage pregnancy, single-parent households, long-term
 dependency on public assistance and minimal educational achievement;
 (3) are locations for recurrent vandalism and criminal activity (including
 drug-related criminal activity);
 (4) suffer from management deficiencies, including absence of effective
 management systems to (A) repair and re-rent vacant units expeditiously;
 (B) maintain units and common areas; (C) terminate the tenancy of tenants
 engaged in activity that adversely affects the health, safety, and right
 to quiet enjoyment of their neighbors; (D) collect rents; (E) encourage
 tenant participation and cooperation in management and maintenance; and
 (F) maintain adequate security; and
 (5) meet such other criteria that the Commission determines to be evidence
 of unfit living conditions.
 (b) EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES- The Commission shall assess the
 most promising strategies to eliminate unfit living conditions in severely
 distressed public housing projects that have been implemented by public
 housing authorities, other Government agencies at the Federal, State, and
 local level, public housing tenants, and the private sector. Such strategies
 may include but shall not be limited to--
 (1) measures to correct management deficiencies;
 (2) the provision of supportive services to project residents, and, if
 necessary, the redesign of projects to accommodate such services;
 (3) the redesign of projects to reduce density and otherwise eliminate
 harmful design elements;
 (4) the conversion of projects to mixed-income housing developments; and
 (5) the total or partial demolition or disposition of projects. Evaluation
 of such strategies shall consider efforts to provide for replacement of
 public housing dwelling units that were demolished, disposed of or otherwise
 removed from use by low-income persons.
 (c) DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL ACTION PLAN- The Commission shall establish a
 national action plan to eliminate by the year 2000 unfit living conditions in
 public housing projects identified in subsection (a). The action plan shall--
 (1) specify objectives that the Department of Housing and Urban Development
 could achieve in cooperation with public housing authorities, public housing
 tenants, and other interested parties;
 (2) provide a schedule by which such objectives could be achieved;
 (3) recommend any legislative or administrative action that is necessary
 to achieve such objectives;
 (4) make recommendations regarding any necessary replacement of public
 housing; and
 (5) calculate, in accordance with the schedule established above, any impact
 on Federal expenditures necessary to achieve such objectives.
 (d) FINAL REPORT- Not later than 12 months after the Commission is established
 pursuant to section 503(a), the Commission shall submit to the Secretary
 and to the Congress a final report which shall contain the information,
 evaluations, and recommendations specified above.
SEC. 505. POWERS OF COMMISSION.
 (a) HEARINGS- The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this
 subtitle, hold such hearings and sit and act at such times and places as
 the Commission may find advisable.
 (b) RULES AND REGULATIONS- The Commission may adopt such rules and regulations
 as may be necessary to establish its procedures and to govern the manner
 of its operations, organization and personnel.
 (c) Assistance From Federal Agencies-
 (1) The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the
 United States such data and information as the Commission may require for
 the purpose of this subtitle, including but not limited to comprehensive
 plans submitted by public housing authorities in accordance with section
 14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and applications submitted by
 public housing authorities requesting funds for the major reconstruction
 of public housing projects in accordance with section 5 of such Act. Upon
 request of the Commission, any such department or agency shall furnish
 such data or information. The Commission may acquire data or information
 directly from public housing authorities to the same extent the Secretary
 could acquire such data or information.
 (2) The General Services Administration shall provide to the Commission, on
 a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Commission
 may request.
 (3) Upon the request of the chairperson of the Commission, the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development shall, to the extent possible and subject
 to the discretion of the Secretary, detail any of the personnel of the
 Department of Housing and Urban Development, on a nonreimbursable basis,
 to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under this subtitle.
 (d) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner
 and under the same conditions as other Federal agencies.
 (e) CONTRACTING- The Commission may, to such extent and in such amounts
 as are provided in appropriations Acts, enter into contracts with private
 firms, institutions, and individuals for the purpose of conducting research
 or surveys necessary to enable the Commission to discharge its duties under
 this subtitle.
 (f) STAFF- (1) The Commission shall appoint an executive director of the
 Commission who shall be compensated at a rate fixed by the Commission, but
 which shall not exceed the rate established for level V of the Executive
 Schedule under title 5, United States Code.
 (2) In addition to the executive director, the Commission may appoint and
 fix the compensation of such personnel as it deems advisable, in accordance
 with the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments
 to the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
 III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General
 Schedule pay rates.
 (g) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Commission shall be considered an advisory
 committee within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
 U.S.C. App.).
SEC. 506. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title not to exceed
 $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 and $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1991. Funds
 appropriated under this section shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 507. SUNSET.
 The Commission shall terminate upon the expiration of 18 months following
 the appointment of all the members under section 503(a).
TITLE VI--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON NATIVE AMERICAN, ALASKA NATIVE, AND NATIVE
HAWAIIAN HOUSING
SEC. 601. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There is established a Commission to be known as the National Commission
 on American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian Housing (hereinafter
 in this section referred to as the `Commission').
SEC. 602. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) APPOINTMENT- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 12 members,
 appointed not later than 60 days after amounts are appropriated pursuant
 to section 605 of this Act or made available from non-Federal sources. The
 members shall be appointed as follows:
 (A) 2 members to be appointed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development;
 (B) 2 members appointed by the Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member of
 the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate;
 (C) 3 members appointed by the Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member of
 the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development of the Committee on
 Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives;
 (D) 3 members appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
 the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of the Committee on Banking,
 Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate;
 (E) 1 Native Hawaiian appointed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development; and
 (F) 1 Native Hawaiian appointed by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
 of the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate.
 (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary and the congressional
 leaders referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1) shall
 appoint as members of the Commission individuals who are elected officials
 of Indian tribes, who are officials of Indian housing authorities, or who
 have experience in Federal Indian housing programs.
 (3) The congressional leaders referred to in subparagraphs (C) and (D)
 paragraph (1) shall appoint 1 individual under each such clause with
 experience in housing development and finance.
 (4) The members appointed under subparagraphs (E) and (F) of paragraph (1)
 shall be individuals with experience in the Native Hawaiian community in
 housing programs available to beneficiaries of the Hawaiian Homes Commission
 Act of 1920.
 (b) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among the
 members of the Commission.
 (c) QUORUM- A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
 transaction of business.
 (d) VOTING- Each member of the Commission shall be entitled to one vote,
 which shall be equal to the vote of every other member of the Commission.
 (e) VACANCIES- Any vacancy on the Commission shall not affect its powers,
 but shall be filled in the original manner in which the appointment was made.
 (f) PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL PAY- Members on the Commission shall serve
 without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence,
 and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
 as members of the Commission.
 (g) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate upon the expiration of 18
 months after all members of the Commission are appointed under paragraph (1).
SEC. 603. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) EVALUATION OF CURRENT PROBLEMS- The Commission shall evaluate the
 factors currently impeding the development of safe and affordable housing for
 American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians, including factors
 related to tribal administrative capacity, property management, access to
 financial markets, infrastructure development, and the adequacy of existing
 housing programs for Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians.
 (b) EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES- The Commission shall assess the
 most promising strategies for the development, management, and modernization
 of housing for Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians. The Commission
 shall, in particular, evaluate housing strategies that have been or could
 be carried out by Indian housing authorities, public housing authorities,
 other government agencies at the Federal, State and local level, and the
 private sector.
 (c) DEVELOPMENT OF AN ACTION PLAN- The Commission shall establish an action
 plan for American Indian and Alaska Native housing based upon the assessment
 in subsections (a) and (b). The action plan shall--
 (1) specify objectives that the Department of Housing and Urban Development
 could achieve in cooperation with Indian housing authorities, Indian tribes,
 Native Hawaiian organizations, and other interested parties;
 (2) provide a schedule by which such objectives could be achieved; and
 (3) recommend legislative, regulatory, or administrative action necessary
 to achieve such objectives.
 (d) FINAL REPORT- Not later than 12 months after the appointment of members
 of the Commission under section 602(a), the Commission shall submit to
 the Secretary and to the Congress a final report which shall contain the
 information, evaluations, and recommendations specified above.
 (e) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `Native Hawaiian
 organization' means any organization which is established and controlled
 by beneficiaries or eligible beneficiaries under the provisions established
 by the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920.
SEC. 604. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) HEARINGS- The Commission may for the purpose of carrying out this title,
 hold such hearings and sit and act at such times and places as the Commission
 may find advisable.
 (b) RULES AND REGULATIONS- The Commission may adopt such rules and regulations
 as may be necessary to establish its procedures and to govern the manner
 of its operations, organization, and personnel.
 (c) ASSISTANCE FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES-
 (1) The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of
 the United States such data and information as the Commission may require
 for the purpose of this title. Upon request of the Commission, any such
 department or agency shall furnish such data or information. The Commission
 may require data or information directly from Indian housing authorities
 to the same extent the Secretary could acquire such data or information.
 (2) The General Services Administration shall provide to the Commission, on
 a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Commission
 may request.
 (3) Upon the request of the chairperson of the Commission, the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development shall, to the extent possible and subject
 to the discretion of the Secretary, detail any of the personnel of the
 Department of Housing and Urban Development, on a nonreimbursable basis,
 to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under this title.
 (d) MAILS. --The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
 manner and under the same conditions as other Federal agencies.
 (e) CONTRACTING. --The Commission may, to such extent and in such amounts
 as are provided in appropriations Acts, enter into contracts with private
 firms, institutions, and individuals for the purpose of conducting research
 or surveys necessary to enable the Commission to discharge its duties under
 this title.
 (f) STAFF- (1) The Commission shall appoint an executive director of the
 Commission who shall be compensated at a rate fixed by the Commission, but
 which shall not exceed the rate established for level V of the Executive
 Schedule under title 5, United States Code.
 (2) In addition to the executive director, the Commission may appoint and
 fix the compensation of such personnel as it deems advisable, in accordance
 with the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments
 to the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
 III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General
 Schedule pay rates.
 (3) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Commission shall be considered an advisory
 committee within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
 U.S.C. App.).
SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $500,000 for each
 of the fiscal years 1990 and 1991. Any sums so appropriated shall remain
 available until expended.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 701. NULLIFICATION OF RIGHT OF REDEMPTION OF SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGORS
UNDER SECTION 312 REHABILITATION LOAN PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Whenever with respect to a single family mortgage securing a
 loan under section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964, the Secretary of Housing
 and Urban Development or its foreclosure agent forecloses in any Federal
 or State court or pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage, the purchaser
 at the foreclosure sale shall be entitled to receive a conveyance of title
 to, and possession of, the property, subject to any interests senior to the
 interests of the Secretary. With respect to properties that are vacant and
 abandoned, notwithstanding any State law to the contrary, there shall be no
 right of redemption (including all instances any right to possession based
 upon any right of redemption) in the mortgagor or any other person subsequent
 to the foreclosure sale in connection with such single family mortgage. The
 appropriate State official or the trustee, as the case may be, shall execute
 and deliver a deed or other appropriate instrument conveying title to the
 purchaser at the foreclosure sale, consistent with applicable procedures
 in the jurisdiction and without regard to any such right of redemption.
 (b) FORECLOSURE BY OTHERS- Whenever with respect to a single family mortgage
 on a property that also has a single family mortgage securing a loan under
 section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964, a mortgagee forecloses in any
 Federal or State court or pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage, the
 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, if the Secretary is purchaser
 at the foreclosure sale, shall be entitled to receive a conveyance of title
 to, and possession of, the property, subject to the interests senior to the
 interests of the mortgagee. Notwithstanding any State law to the contrary,
 there shall be no right of redemption (including in all instances any
 right to possession based upon any right of redemption) if the mortgagor
 or any other person subsequent to the foreclosure sale to the Secretary in
 connection with a property that secured a single family mortgage for a loan
 under section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964. The appropriate State official
 or the trustee, as the case may be, shall execute and deliver a deed or
 other appropriate instrument conveying title to the Secretary, who is the
 purchaser at the foreclosure sale, consistent with applicable procedures
 in the jurisdiction and without regard to any such right of redemption.
 (c) VERIFICATION OF TITLE- The following actions shall be taken in order
 to verify title in the purchaser at the foreclosure sale:
 (1) In the case of a judicial foreclosure in any Federal or State court,
 there shall be included in the petition and in the judgment of foreclosure
 a statement that the foreclosure is in accordance with this subsection and
 that there is no right of redemption in the mortgagor or any other person.
 (2) In the case of a foreclosure pursuant to a power of sale provision in
 the mortgage, the statement required in paragraph (1) shall be included
 in the advertisement of the sale and either in the recitals of the deed
 or other appropriate instrument conveying title to the purchaser at the
 foreclosure sale or in an affidavit or addendum to the deed.
 (d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 (1) The term `mortgage' means a deed of trust, mortgage, deed to secure debt,
 security agreement, or any other form of instrument under which any interest
 in property, real, personal, or mixed, or any interest in property, including
 leaseholds, life estates, reversionary interests, and any other estates under
 applicable State law, is conveyed in trust, mortgaged, encumbered, pledged,
 or otherwise rendered subject to a lien, for the purpose of securing the
 payment of money or the performance of an obligation.
 (2) The term `single family mortgage' means a mortgage that covers property
 that includes a 1- to 4-family residence.
SEC. 702. CDBG GRANTS TO INDIAN TRIBES.
 (a) ELIMINATION FROM DEFINITION OF NONENTITLEMENT AREAS- Section 102(a)(7)
 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 is amended by striking
 the period at the end and inserting the following: `and does not include
 Indian tribes.'.
 (b) ALLOCATION- Section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act
 of 1974 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting `and Indian tribes' before the period at the end of the
 first sentence; and
 (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: `Indian
 tribes shall receive grants from such allocation pursuant to subsection
 (b)(7).';
 (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `The' and inserting `After taking
 into account the set-aside for Indian tribes under paragraph (7), the';
 (3) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `The' and inserting `After taking
 into account the set-aside for Indian tribes under paragraph (7), the';
 (4) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(7)(A) For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve for grants to
 Indian tribes, from amounts approved in appropriation Acts under section
 103 for grants for the year under subsection (a), not more than 1 percent
 of the amounts appropriated under such section.
 `(B) The Secretary shall provide for distribution of amounts under this
 paragraph to Indian tribes on the basis of a competition conducted pursuant
 to specific criteria for the selection of Indian tribes to receive such
 amounts. The criteria shall be contained in a regulation promulgated by
 the Secretary after notice and public comment.'; and
 (5) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (4).
 (c) OFFICE OF INDIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE PROGRAMS- The Secretary of Housing and
 Urban Development shall administer grants to Indian tribes under title I of
 the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 through the Office of Indian
 and Alaska Native Programs of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 (d) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to
 carry out this section and the amendments made by this section in a manner
 and by such time to provide for the effectiveness of such regulations with
 respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1991 under section 103 of
 the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
 (e) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 amounts approved in any appropriation Act under section 103 of the Housing
 and Community Development Act of 1974 for fiscal year 1991 and each fiscal
 year thereafter.
TITLE VIII--SECTION 8 RENT ADJUSTMENTS
SEC. 801. ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT FACTORS FOR SECTION 8 RENTS.
 (a) EFFECT OF PRIOR COMPARABILITY STUDIES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In any case in which, in implementing section 8(c)(2)
 of the United States Housing Act of 1937--
 (A) the use of comparability studies by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development or the appropriate State agency as an independent limitation
 on the amount of rental adjustments resulting from the application of an
 annual adjustment factor under such section has resulted in the reduction
 of the maximum monthly rent for units covered by the contract or the failure
 to increase such contract rent to the full amount otherwise permitted under
 the annual adjustment factor, or
 (B) an assistance contract requires a project owner to make a request before
 becoming eligible for a rent adjustment under the annual adjustment factor
 and the project owner certifies that such a request was not made because
 of anticipated negative adjustment to the project rents,
for fiscal year 1980, and annually thereafter until regulations implementing
this section take effect, rental adjustments shall be calculated as an
amount equal to the annual adjustment factor multiplied by a figure equal
to the contract rent minus the amount of contract rent attributable to debt
service. Upon the request of the project owner, the Secretary shall pay to
the project owner the amount, if any, by which the total rental adjustment
calculated under the preceding sentence exceeds the total adjustments the
Secretary or appropriate State agency actually approved, except that solely
for purposes of calculating retroactive payments under this subsection, in
no event shall any project owner be paid an amount less than 30 percent of
a figure equal to the aggregate of the annual adjustment factor multiplied
by the full contract rent for each year on or after fiscal year 1980, minus
the sum of the rental payments the Secretary or appropriate State agency
actually approved for those years. The method provided by this subsection
shall be the exclusive method by which retroactive payments, whether or
not requested, may be made for projects subject to this subsection for the
period from fiscal year 1980 until the regulations issued under subsection
(e) take effect. For purposes of this paragraph, `debt service' shall include
interest, principal, and mortgage insurance premium if any.
 (2) APPLICABILITY-
 (A) IN GENERAL- Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any use of
 comparability studies referred to in such subsection occurring before the
 effective date of the regulations issued under subsection (e).
 (B) FINAL LITIGATION- Subsection (a) shall not apply to any project with
 respect to which litigation regarding the authority of the Secretary to
 use comparability studies to limit rental adjustments under section 8(c)(2)
 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 has resulted in a judgment before
 the effective date of this Act that is final and not appealable (including
 any settlement agreement).
 (b) 3-YEAR PAYMENTS- The Secretary shall provide the amounts under subsection
 (a) over the 3-year period beginning on the effective date of the regulations
 issued under subsection (e). The Secretary shall provide the payments
 authorized under subsection (a) only to the extent approved in subsequent
 appropriations Acts. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as
 may be necessary for this purpose.
 (c) COMPARABILITY STUDIES- Section 8(c)(2)(C) of the United States Housing
 Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(c)(2)(C)) is amended by inserting after the
 period at the end of the first sentence the following: `In implementing
 the limitation established under the preceding sentence, the Secretary
 shall establish regulations for conducting comparability studies for
 projects where the Secretary has reason to believe that the application
 of the formula adjustments under subparagraph (A) would result in such
 material differences. The Secretary shall conduct such studies upon the
 request of any owner of any project, or as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate by establishing, to the extent practicable, a modified annual
 adjustment factor for such market area, as the Secretary shall designate,
 that is geographically smaller than the applicable housing area used for the
 establishment of the annual adjustment factor under subparagraph (A). The
 Secretary shall establish such modified annual adjustment factor on the basis
 of the results of a study conducted by the Secretary of the rents charged,
 and any change in such rents over the previous year, for assisted units and
 unassisted units of similar quality, type, and age in the smaller market
 area. Where the Secretary determines that such modified annual adjustment
 factor cannot be established or that such factor when applied to a particular
 project would result in material differences between the rents charged for
 assisted units and unassisted units of similar quality, type, and age in
 the same market area, the Secretary may apply an alternative methodology
 for conducting comparability studies in order to establish rents that are
 not materially different from rents charged for comparable unassisted units.'.
 (d) DETERMINATION OF CONTRACT RENT- (1) The Secretary shall upon the request
 of the project owner, make a one-time determination of the contract rent
 for each project owner referred to in subsection (a). The contract rent
 shall be the greater of the contract rent--
 (A) currently approved by the Secretary under section 8(c)(2) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937, or
 (B) calculated in accordance with the first sentence of subsection (a)(1).
 (2) All adjustments in contract rents under section 8(c)(2) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937, including adjustments involving projects referred
 to in subsection (a), that occur beginning with the first anniversary date of
 the contract after the regulations issued under subsection (e) take effect
 shall be made in accordance with the annual adjustment and comparability
 provisions of sections 8(c)(2)(A) and 8(c)(2)(C) of such Act, respectively,
 using the one-time contract rent determination under paragraph (1).
 (e) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue regulations to carry out this
 section and the amendments made by this section, including the amendments made
 by subsection (c) with regard to annual adjustment factors and comparability
 studies. The Secretary shall issue such regulations not later than the
 expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this Act.
 (f) REPORT- Not later than March 1, 1990, the Secretary shall report to the
 Congress on the feasibility and desirability, and the budgetary, legal,
 and administrative aspects, of adjusting contract rents under section
 8(c)(2)(C) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 on the basis of any
 alternative methodologies that are simpler in application than individual
 project comparability studies.
 (g) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The first sentence of section 8(c)(2)(C) of the
 United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended by inserting `, type,' after
 `quality'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.