 
--H.R.3720--
H.R.3720
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend provisions of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank Act relating
to the payment of interest on and the redemption of class A notes issued by
the National Consumer Cooperative Bank.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Consumer Cooperative Bank Amendments
 of 1989'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO CLASS A NOTES.
 Section 104(c) of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 3014(c)) is amended--
 (1) by striking out the first 2 sentences and inserting the following: `The
 holder of class A notes shall be entitled to interest at a rate or rates
 determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration
 the current average yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the
 United States of comparable terms and conditions as of the last day of the
 month preceding each issuance of such class A notes to the Secretary of the
 Treasury, except that, until October 1, 1990, interest payments shall not
 exceed 25 percent of gross revenues for the year, less necessary operating
 expenses including a reserve for possible losses. From time to time, the
 Bank may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and consistent
 with the terms of this Act, issue replacement class A notes upon terms and
 conditions to be agreed upon by the Bank and the Secretary, bearing interest
 as provided in this subsection (c), in substitution for those class A notes
 previously issued.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following: `All class A notes shall be redeemed
 by the Bank no later than October 31, 2020.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.