 
--H.R.4299--
H.R.4299
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize a study of the fishery resources of the Great Lakes, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--GREAT LAKES FISH AND WILDLIFE RESTORATION
SECTION 1001. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration
 Act of 1990'.
SEC. 1002. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds and declares the following:
 (1) As the human population of the Great Lakes Basin has expanded to over
 35,000,000 people, great demands have been placed on the lakes for use
 for boating and other recreation, navigation, municipal and industrial
 water supply, waste disposal, power production, and other purposes. These
 growing and often conflicting demands exert pressure on the fish and wildlife
 resources of the Great Lakes Basin, including in the form of contaminants,
 invasion by nonindigenous species, habitat degradation and destruction,
 legal and illegal fishery resource harvest levels, and sea lamprey predation.
 (2) The fishery resources of the Great Lakes support recreational fisheries
 enjoyed by more than 5,000,000 people annually and commercial fisheries
 providing approximately 9,000 jobs. Together, these fisheries generate
 economic activity worth more than $4,400,000,000 annually to the United
 States.
 (3) The availability of a suitable forage base is essential to lake trout,
 walleye, yellow perch, and other recreational and commercially valuable
 fishery resources of the Great Lakes Basin. Protecting and restoring
 productive fish habitat, including by protecting water quality, is essential
 to the successful recovery of Great Lakes Basin fishery resources.
 (4) The Great Lakes Basin contains important breeding and migration habitat
 for all types of migratory birds. Many migratory bird species dependent on
 deteriorating Great Lakes Basin habitat have suffered serious population
 declines in recent years.
 (5) Over 80 percent of the original wetlands in the Great Lakes Basin have
 been destroyed and such losses continue at a rate of 20,000 acres annually.
 (6) Contaminant burdens in the fish and wildlife resources of the Great
 Lakes Basin are substantial and the impacts of those contaminants on
 the life functions of important fish and wildlife resources are poorly
 understood. Concern over the effects of those contaminants on human health
 have resulted in numerous public health advisories recommending restricted
 or no consumption of Great Lakes fish.
 (7) The lower Great Lakes are uniquely different from the upper Great Lakes
 biologically, physically, and in the degree of human use and shoreline
 development, and special fishery resource assessments and management
 activities are necessary to respond effectively to these special
 circumstances.
SEC. 1003. PURPOSE.
 The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to carry out a comprehensive study of the status, and the assessment,
 management, and restoration needs, of the fishery resources of the Great
 Lakes Basin;
 (2) to develop proposals to implement recommendations resulting from that
 study; and
 (3) to provide assistance to the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission, States,
 Indian Tribes, and other interested entities to encourage cooperative
 conservation, restoration and management of the fish and wildlife resources
 and their habitat of the Great Lakes Basin.
SEC. 1004. DEFINITIONS.
 In this Act--
 (1) the term `Administrator' means the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency;
 (2) the term `Director' means the Director of the United States Fish and
 Wildlife Service;
 (3) the term `fish stock' means--
 (A) a taxonomically distinct species or subspecies of fish; or
 (B) any other aggregation of fish that are geographically, ecologically,
 behaviorally, or otherwise limited from breeding with individuals from
 other groups of fish and are capable of management as a unit;
 (4) the term `Great Lakes Basin' means the air, land, water, and living
 organisms within the drainage basin of the Saint Lawrence River at or upstream
 from the point at which the river becomes the international boundary between
 Canada and the United States;
 (5) the term `Indian Tribe' means any Indian tribe, band, village, nation,
 or other organized group or community that is recognized by the Bureau of
 Indian Affairs as eligible for the special programs and services provided
 by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians;
 (6) the term `lower Great Lakes' means the region in which is located that
 portion of the Great Lakes Basin which is downstream from the confluence
 of the Saint Clair River and Lake Huron near Port Huron, Michigan;
 (7) the term `upper Great Lakes' means that portion of the Great Lakes
 Basin which is upstream from the confluence of the Saint Clair River and
 Lake Huron near Port Huron, Michigan.
 (8) the term `nonindigenous species' means a species of plant or animal
 that did not occur in the Great Lakes Basin before European colonization
 of North America;
 (9) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Army; and
 (10) the term `State Director' means the head of the agency, department,
 board, commission, or other governmental entity of each of the States of
 New York, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and the
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania which is responsible for the management and
 conservation of the fish and wildlife resources of that State.
SEC. 1005. GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES RESTORATION STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall conduct a comprehensive study of the
 status of, and the assessment, management, and restoration needs of, the
 fishery resources of the Great Lakes Basin and shall provide the opportunity
 for the Secretary, the Administrator, State Directors, Indian Tribes, the
 Great Lakes Fishery Commission, appropriate Canadian Government entities,
 and other appropriate entities to participate in the study. The Director
 shall complete the study by October 1, 1994.
 (b) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- To provide opportunities for the full
 participation of all affected entities in the planning and conduct of the
 study, the Director shall invite the entities identified in subsection (a) to
 enter into a memorandum of understanding regarding the scope and focus of the
 study and the responsibilities of each participant for conducting the study.
 (c) CONTENT OF STUDY- A study under this section shall include, but not be
 limited to--
 (1) identifying and describing the component drainages of the Great Lakes
 Basin (including the drainage for each of the Great Lakes), analyzing how
 the characteristics and current or expected land and water uses of those
 drainages have affected, and can be expected to affect in the future,
 the fishery resources and fish habitats of the Great Lakes Basin;
 (2) analyzing historical fishery resource data for the Great Lakes Basin to
 identify the causes of past and continuing declines of the fishery resources
 and the impediments to restoring those resources;
 (3) evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness, and consistency of current
 Great Lakes interagency fisheries management plans and Federal and State
 water quality programs, with respect to their effects on Great Lakes
 fishery resources;
 (4) analyzing the impacts of, and management control alternatives for,
 recently introduced nonindigenous species, including the zebra mussel,
 the ruffe, and the spiny water flea in accordance with the Aquatic Nuisance
 Prevention and Control Act of 1990;
 (5) developing recommendations regarding--
 (A) an action plan to analyze the effects of contaminant levels on fishery
 resources;
 (B) an action plan for the cooperative restoration and enhancement of
 depleted, nationally significant fish stocks, including lake trout, yellow
 perch, lake sturgeon, walleye, forage fish, and Atlantic salmon;
 (C) planning and technical assistance that should be provided to the,
 Great Lakes Fisheries Commission, States, and Indian Tribes to assist their
 fishery resource restoration efforts;
 (D) mitigation measures to restore and enhance fishery resources adversely
 affected by past Federal (including federally assisted or approved) water
 resource development projects and other activities;
 (E) increasing the involvement of the International Joint Commission,
 the Great Lakes Commission, the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and other
 interjurisdictional entities regarding fishery resources protection,
 restoration, and enhancement;
 (F) research projects and data gathering initiatives regarding population
 trends of fish stocks, including population abundance and structure,
 interspecific competition, survival rates, and behavioral patterns;
 (G) important fishery resource habitat and other areas that should be
 protected, restored, or enhanced for the benefit of Great Lakes fishery
 resources;
 (H) how private conservation organizations, recreational and commercial
 fishing interests, the aquaculture industry, and the general public could
 contribute to the implementation of the fishery resource restoration and
 enhancement recommendations developed pursuant to this Act; and
 (I) appropriate contributions that should be made by States and other
 non-Federal entities to the cost of activities undertaken to implement the
 recommendations, including a description of--
 (i) the activities that shall be cost-shared;
 (ii) the entities or individuals which shall share the costs of those
 activities;
 (iii) the proportion of appropriate project and activity costs that shall
 be borne by non-Federal interests; and
 (iv) how the entities or individuals who share costs should finance their
 contribution.
 (d) PROPOSALS FOR IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS- The Director shall develop
 proposals for implementing the recommendations of the study developed under
 subsection (c)(5). The proposals shall be consistent with the goals of
 the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement, as revised in 1987, the 1954 Great
 Lakes Fisheries Convention, State and tribal fishery management jurisdiction,
 and the 1980 Joint Strategic Plan for the management of Great Lakes fishery
 resources.
SEC. 1006. GOALS OF UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE PROGRAMS RELATED
TO GREAT LAKES FISH AND WILDLIFE RESOURCES.
 In administering programs of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 related to the Great Lakes Basin, the Director shall seek to achieve the
 following goals:
 (1) Restoring and maintaining self-sustaining fishery resource populations.
 (2) Minimizing the impacts of contaminants on fishery and wildlife resources.
 (3) Protecting, maintaining, and, where degraded and destroyed, restoring
 fish and wildlife habitat, including the enhancement and creation of wetlands
 that result in a net gain in the amount of those habitats.
 (4) Stopping illegal activities adversely impacting fishery and wildlife
 resources.
 (5) Restoring threatened and endangered species to viable, self-sustaining
 levels.
 (6) Protecting, managing, and conserving migratory birds.
SEC. 1007. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
 (a) GREAT LAKES COORDINATION OFFICE- The Director shall establish a centrally
 located facility for the coordination of all United States Fish and Wildlife
 Service activities in the Great Lakes Basin, to be known as the `Great Lakes
 Coordination Office'. The functional responsibilities of the Great Lakes
 Coordination Office shall include intra- and interagency coordination,
 information distribution, and public awareness outreach. The Great Lakes
 Coordination Office shall include all administrative and technical support
 necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
 (b) LOWER GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES OFFICE- The Director shall establish
 an office with necessary administrative and technical support services
 to carry out all United States Fish and Wildlife Service operational
 activities related to fishery resource protection, restoration, maintenance,
 and enhancement in the lower Great Lakes. The office shall be known as the
 `Lower Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office', and shall be centrally located
 in the lower Great Lakes so as to facilitate fishery resource restoration
 and enhancement activities relating to the lower Great Lakes.
 (c) UPPER GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES OFFICES- The Director shall establish
 one or more offices with necessary administrative and technical support
 services to carry out United States Fish and Wildlife Service operational
 activities related to fishery resource protection, restoration, maintenance,
 and enhancement in the upper Great Lakes. Each of the offices shall be
 known as an `Upper Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office', and shall be
 appropriately located so as to facilitate fishery resource activities in
 the upper Great Lakes.
SEC. 1008. ANNUAL REPORTS.
 Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually
 thereafter, the Director shall submit a report to the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Environment and Public Works of the Senate. Each such report shall describe--
 (1) the progress and findings of the studies conducted under section 1005,
 including recommendations of implementing activities, where appropriate,
 that would contribute to the restoration or improvement of one or more fish
 stocks of the Great Lakes Basin; and
 (2) activities undertaken to accomplish the goals stated in section 1006.
SEC. 1009. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director--
 (1) for conducting a study under section 1005 not more than $4,000,000 for
 each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1994;
 (2) to establish and operate the Great Lakes Coordination Office under section
 1008(a) and Upper Great Lakes Fishery Resources Offices under section 1008(c)
 not more than $4,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1995; and
 (3) to establish and operate the Lower Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office
 under section 1008(b), not more than $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal
 years 1991 through 1995.
TITLE II--GREAT LAKES OIL POLLUTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Great Lakes Oil Pollution Research and
 Development Act'.
SEC. 2002. GREAT LAKES OIL POLLUTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 Section 7001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380) is
 amended as follows:
 (1) GREAT LAKES DEMONSTRATION PROJECT- In subsection (c)(6), strike `3'
 and insert `4', strike `and' after `California,', and insert `and (D)
 a port on the Great Lakes' after `Louisiana,'.
 (2) FUNDING- In subsection (f) strike `21,250,000' and insert `22,000,000'
 and in subsection (f)(2) strike `2,250,000' and insert `3,000,000'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.