 
--H.R.2844--
H.R.2844
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To improve the ability of the Secretary of the Interior to properly manage
certain
resources of the National Park System.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act the term:
 (a) `Attorney General' means the Attorney General of the United States.
 (b) `Damages' includes the following:
 (1) Compensation for--
 (A)(i) the cost of replacing, restoring, or acquiring the equivalent of a
 park system resource; and
 (ii) the value of any significant loss of use of a park system resource
 pending its restoration or replacement or the acquisition of an equivalent
 resource; or
 (B) the value of the park system resource in the event the resource cannot
 be replaced or restored.
 (2) The cost of damage assessments under section 3(b).
 (c) `Response costs' means the costs of actions taken by the Secretary of
 the Interior to prevent or minimize destruction or loss of or injury to
 park system resources; or to abate or minimize the imminent risk of such
 destruction, loss, or injury; or to monitor ongoing effects of incidents
 causing such destruction, loss, or injury.
 (d) `Park system resource' means any living or nonliving resource that is
 located within or is a living part of a marine regimen or a Great Lakes
 aquatic regimen (including an aquatic regimen within Voyageurs National
 Park) within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System, except
 for resources owned by a non-Federal entity.
 (e) `Regimen' means a water column and submerged lands, up to the high-tide
 or high-water line.
 (f) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 2. LIABILITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (c), any person who destroys, causes
 the loss of, or injures any park system resource is liable to the United
 States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction,
 loss, or injury.
 (b) LIABILITY IN REM- Any instrumentality, including but not limited to
 a vessel, vehicle, aircraft, or other equipment that destroys, causes the
 loss of, or injures any park system resource shall be liable in rem to the
 United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction,
 loss, or injury to the same extent as a person is liable under subsection (a).
 (c) DEFENSES- A person is not liable under this section if such person can
 establish that--
 (1) the destruction, loss of, or injury to the park system resource was
 caused solely by an act of God or an act of war;
 (2) such person acted with due care, and the destruction, loss of, or injury
 to the park system resource was caused solely by an act or omission of a
 third party, other than an employee or agent of such person; or
 (3) the destruction, loss, or injury to the park system resource was caused
 by an activity authorized by Federal or State law.
 (d) SCOPE- The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other
 liability which may arise under Federal or State law.
SEC. 3. ACTIONS.
 (a) CIVIL ACTIONS FOR RESPONSE COSTS AND DAMAGES- The Attorney General,
 upon request of the Secretary after a finding by the Secretary--
 (1) of damage to a park system resource; or
 (2) that absent the undertaking of response costs, damage to a park system
 resource would have occurred;
may commence a civil action in the United States district court for the
appropriate district against any person who may be liable under section 2
for response costs and damages. The Secretary shall submit a request for
such an action to the Attorney General whenever a person may be liable or an
instrumentality may be liable in rem for such costs and damages as provided
in section 2.
 (b) RESPONSE ACTIONS AND ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGES- (1) The Secretary shall
 undertake all necessary actions to prevent or minimize the destruction,
 loss of, or injury to park system resources, or to minimize the imminent
 risk of such destruction, loss, or injury.
 (2) The Secretary shall assess and monitor damages to park system resources.
SEC. 4. USE OF RECOVERED AMOUNTS.
 Response costs and damages recovered by the Secretary under the provisions of
 this Act or amounts recovered by the Federal Government under any Federal,
 State, or local law or regulation or otherwise as a result of damage to
 any living or nonliving resource located within a unit of the National Park
 System, except for damage to resources owned by a non-Federal entity, shall
 be available to the Secretary and without further congressional action may
 be used only as follows:
 (a) RESPONSE COSTS AND DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS- To reimburse response costs
 and damage assessments by the Secretary or other Federal agencies as the
 Secretary deems appropriate.
 (b) RESTORATION AND REPLACEMENT- To restore, replace, or acquire the
 equivalent of resources which were the subject of the action and to monitor
 and study such resources: Provided, That no such funds may be used to
 acquire any lands or waters or interests therein or rights thereto unless
 such acquisition is specifically approved in advance in appropriations Acts
 and any such acquisition shall be subject to any limitations contained in
 the organic legislation for such park unit.
 (c) EXCESS FUNDS- Any amounts remaining after expenditures pursuant to
 subsections (a) and (b) shall be deposited into the General Fund of the
 United States Treasury.
 (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Secretary shall report annually to the Committee
 on Appropriations and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 United States Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on
 Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 on funds expended pursuant to this Act. The report shall contain a detailed
 analysis and accounting of all funds recovered and expended, including,
 but not limited to, donations received pursuant to section 5, projects
 undertaken, and monies returned to the Treasury.
SEC. 5. DONATIONS.
 The Secretary may accept donations of money or services for expenditure
 or employment to meet expected, immediate, or ongoing response costs. Such
 donations may be expended or employed at any time after their acceptance,
 without further congressional action.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.