 
--H.R.2749--
H.R.2749
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the conveyance of a parcel of land in Whitney Lake, Texas.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, WHITNEY LAKE, TEXAS.
 (a) AUTHORITY TO CONVEY- Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the Army
 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `Secretary') is authorized
 to sell and convey to the city of Whitney, Texas, all right, title, and
 interest of the United States in and to approximately 45 acres of land
 located at Whitney Lake, Texas.
 (b) CONDITIONS- (1) In consideration for the sale and conveyance, the
 city of Whitney shall pay to the United States the fair market value, as
 determined by the Secretary, of the property to be conveyed by the United
 States under subsection (a).
 (2) The conveyance authorized by subsection (a) shall be subject to the
 condition that the property conveyed by the Secretary be used by the city
 for the purposes of a wastewater treatment plant.
 (3) The conveyance authorized by subsection (a) shall be made only if the
 Secretary determines that the Secretary does not need fee simple title to
 such real property for the flood control project on Lake Whitney.
 (c) LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF LAND- The exact acreage and legal description of
 the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by
 surveys that are satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of such surveys
 shall be borne by the city of Whitney.
 (d) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary may require such other
 terms and conditions (including any limitation relating to the operation of
 the Lake Whitney flood control project) with respect to the conveyance as the
 Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.