 
--H.R.1463--
H.R.1463
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 relating to the
Washing-
ton Metrorail System.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Capital Transportation Amendments
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO NATIONAL CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1969.
 Effective upon enactment, the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969
 (Public Law 91-143; 83 Stat. 320) is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
 `SEC. 17. (a) The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to make grants
 to the Transit Authority, in addition to the contributions authorized
 by sections 3 and 14, for the purpose of financing in part the cost of
 construction of the Adopted Regional System.
 `(b) Federal grants under subsection (a) for the Adopted Regional System
 shall be subject to the following limitations and conditions:
 `(1) The work for which such grants are authorized shall be subject to the
 provisions of the Compact and shall be for projects included in the Adopted
 Regional System.
 `(2) The aggregate amount of such Federal grants made during any fiscal
 year shall be matched by the local participating governments by payment
 of capital contributions of not less than 60 percent of the amount of
 such Federal grants and shall be provided in cash from sources other than
 Federal funds or revenues from the operation of public mass transportation
 systems. Any public or private transit system funds so provided shall be
 solely from undistributed cash surpluses, replacement or depreciation funds
 or reserves available in cash, or new capital.
 `(3) Such grants shall be subject to terms and conditions that the Secretary
 may deem appropriate for constructing the Adopted Regional System in a
 cost-effective manner which maximizes the rate at which appropriated funds
 can be utilized to complete all segments for which funds have been authorized.
 `(c) In addition to funds authorized under section 14, there is authorized to
 be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the purpose of making
 grants to complete the Adopted Regional System as provided in subsection (a)
 an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000,000 to be available in increments
 over 8 fiscal years beginning in fiscal year 1992, or until expended.
 `(d) Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization under subsection (c)--
 `(1) shall remain available until expended; and
 `(2) shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, amounts available to
 the Transit Authority under the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964,
 as amended, and section 103(e)(4) of title 23, United States Code.'.
SEC. 3. COMPLETION OF THE ADOPTED REGIONAL SYSTEM.
 The Congress recognizes the importance of a mass transportation system to
 serve the capital of the United States and reaffirms its commitment to the
 construction of the full 103-mile Adopted Regional Metrorail System in a
 continuing partnership of the Federal, State, and local governments in the
 metropolitan Washington region. It is the intent of Congress to ensure
 continued Federal funding to complete the full Metrorail system. Those
 portions of the full system remaining to be completed include in the
 District of Columbia and the State of Maryland, the Green Line between
 the Anacostia and Branch Avenue Stations; in the District of Columbia, the
 Green Line between the U Street-Cardozo and Fort Totten Stations; in the
 State of Maryland, the Red Line between the Wheaton and Glenmont Stations;
 and in the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Yellow Line between the Van Dorn
 Street and Franconia-Springfield Stations.
SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON USE OF HIGHWAY TRUST FUND.
 Notwithstanding this Act, any amendment made by this Act, or any other
 law, no moneys shall be appropriated from the Highway Trust Fund for the
 purpose of making grants pursuant to section 17(a) of the National Capital
 Transportation Act of 1969.
SEC. 5. BUY AMERICAN PROVISION.
 (a) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
 shall report to Congress (1) on contracts which the Transit Authority
 enters into with foreign entities with respect to its rail system in fiscal
 years 1991 and 1992 and which are subject to the Buy American provisions
 of the Surface Transportation and Assistance Act of 1982 or the Surface
 Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, and (2) on
 the number of such contracts which meet the requirements of such provisions
 but which are determined by the United States Trade Representative to be
 in violation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or any other
 international agreement to which the United States is a party.
 (b) PROHIBITION AGAINST FRAUDULENT USE OF `MADE IN AMERICA' LABELS- If the
 Secretary of Transportation determines that any person intentionally affixes
 a label bearing a `made in America' inscription to any product sold in or
 shipped to the United States that is not made in America, the Secretary
 shall declare that person ineligible to receive a Federal contract with the
 Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority for its rail system for a
 period of not less than 3 years and not more than 5 years. The Secretary
 may bring action against such person to enforce this subsection in any
 United States district court.
SEC. 6. RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACT AWARDS.
 No foreign government shall be eligible to receive a contract with the
 Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority for its rail system if that
 government unfairly maintains, in government procurement, a significant
 and persistent pattern or practice of discrimination against United States
 products or services which result in identifiable harm to United States
 businesses, as identified by the President pursuant to section 305(g)(1)(A)
 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.