 
--H.R.1502--
H.R.1502
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize the appropriation of funds to the District of Columbia for
additional officers and members of the Metropolitan Police Department of the
District of Columbia, to provide for the implementation in the District of
Columbia of a community-oriented policing system, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `District of Columbia Police Authorization
 and Expansion Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL OFFICERS AND MEMBERS
FOR THE METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 502 of the District of Columbia Self-Government
 and Governmental Reorganization Act is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) In addition to the amounts authorized to be appropriated under
 subsection (a) and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), there are authorized
 to be appropriated to the District of Columbia, for salaries and expenses
 (including benefits) of 700 additional officers and members of the
 Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, $23,149,000
 for fiscal year 1990, $23,338,000 for fiscal year 1991, $25,199,000 for
 fiscal year 1992, $27,252,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $28,367,000 for
 fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) Amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) shall be available only for
 salaries and expenses (including benefits) of officers and members of the
 Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia in excess of
 4,355 officers and members (and supplies, equipment, and protective vests
 for reserve officers of the Metropolitan Police Department).
 `(3)(A) For fiscal year 1990, no funds authorized to be appropriated under
 paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended until 120 days after the Mayor
 develops and submits a plan for the implementation in the District of
 Columbia of a community-oriented policing system (modeled after, though
 not limited to, such a system in Houston, Texas) to the Committee on the
 District of Columbia of the House of Representatives and the Subcommittee on
 General Services, Federalism, and the District of Columbia of the Committee
 on Governmental Affairs of the United States Senate.
 `(B) For fiscal years after 1990, no funds authorized to be appropriated
 under paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended until the Mayor submits a
 notification to the Committee on the District of Columbia of the House of
 Representatives and the Subcommittee on General Services, Federalism, and the
 District of Columbia of the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the United
 States Senate that the District of Columbia has implemented for such fiscal
 year a community-oriented policing system in the District of Columbia.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 October 1, 1989.
SEC. 3. STUDY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT RESOURCES.
 Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia
 shall prepare and submit to Congress a report--
 (1) analyzing resources available to District of Columbia courts;
 (2) analyzing the feasibility of, and the costs associated with, an increase
 in the number of support personnel and judges assigned to District of
 Columbia courts; and
 (3) evaluating the need for changes in the District of Columbia Pre-Trial
 Detention Act, the proposed felony sentencing guidelines for the District
 of Columbia Superior Court, and the social services program managed by and
 under the direction of the District of Columbia courts.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF INCREASED DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA LAW ENFORCEMENT
EFFORTS ON CRIME IN METROPOLITAN AREA.
 Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Attorney General shall prepare and submit to Congress a report analyzing the
 potential effects of increased efforts to eliminate drug-related criminal
 activity in the District of Columbia on crime and law enforcement in the
 metropolitan area surrounding the District, including the effects of such
 efforts on the caseload of prosecuting attorneys (including United States
 Attorneys) in such area.
SEC. 5. DEVELOPMENT OF CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR INDIVIDUALS CONVICTED OF
CRIMES IN DISTRICT.
 (a) ASSISTANCE FROM BUREAU OF PRISONS AND NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CORRECTIONS-
 Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 District of Columbia shall request the Director of the Bureau of Prisons and
 the Director of the National Institute of Corrections to provide the District
 of Columbia with technical assistance and training in the development of
 a criminal recordkeeping and classification system, which will provide a
 basis for a uniform strategy for managing and evaluating the processing in
 the District of Columbia's criminal justice system of individuals convicted
 of crimes in the District of Columbia.
 (b) INFORMATION INCLUDED IN SYSTEM DATA BASE- The recordkeeping and
 classification system described in subsection (a) shall include a data base
 continuously updated to provide current information on the prison population
 of the District of Columbia, including, but not limited to, the following:
 (1) Aggregate inmate profiles and classifications based on individual
 records and files.
 (2) Escape and other risk assessments for individual inmates.
 (3) Ongoing counts of the number of persons at various stages of processing
 in the criminal justice system.
 (4) Projections for future prison populations.
SEC. 6. USE OF PROCEEDS OF FORFEITED PROPERTY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 502(d)(3)(B) of the District of Columbia Uniform
 Controlled Substances Act of 1981 (section 33-552(d)(3)(B), D.C. Code)
 is amended by striking `shall be used to finance programs' and inserting
 `shall be used, and shall remain available until expended regardless of the
 expiration of the fiscal year in which they were collected, to finance law
 enforcement activities of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District
 of Columbia, with any remaining balance used to finance programs'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- Paragraphs (3) and (3a) of section 502(d) of the
 District of Columbia Uniform Controlled Substances Act of 1981 (sections
 33-552(d) (3) and (3a), D.C. Code) are amended by--
 (1) redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
 (2) redesignating paragraph (3a) as paragraph (3); and
 (3) reordering the paragraphs so that paragraph (3), as redesignated,
 precedes paragraph (4), as redesignated.
SEC. 7. PARTICIPATION OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT
IN THE NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION SYSTEM.
 (a) DISSEMINATION OF ADULT ARREST RECORDS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENTS- (1)
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Metropolitan Police Department
 of the District of Columbia shall disseminate its unexpurgated adult arrest
 records to members of the court and law enforcement agents, including
 the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Such
 dissemination shall be done without cost and without the authorization of
 the persons to whom such records relate.
 (2) Any records disseminated under this section shall be used in a manner
 that complies with applicable Federal law and regulations.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 (1) the term `member of the court' shall include judges, prosecutors,
 defense attorneys (with respect to the records of their client defendants),
 clerks of the court, and penal and probation officers;
 (2) the term `law enforcement agent' shall include police officers and
 Federal agents having the power to arrest; and
 (3) the term `unexpurgated adult arrest records' shall include arrest
 fingerprint cards.
SEC. 8. ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA POLICE CORPS PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, in consultation with the
 Chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia,
 shall establish a pilot program under which the District shall agree to
 assist not more than 25 eligible college students or graduates in paying
 loans or other financial obligations incurred in obtaining a baccalaureate
 or graduate degree if such a student or graduate agrees to serve not less
 than 4 years as a member of the Metropolitan Police Department.
 (b) APPROVAL OF PROGRAM- Not later than 60 days after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall submit
 a description of the program described in subsection (a), including any
 regulations proposed to implement such program, to the Committee on the
 District of Columbia of the United States House of Representatives and the
 Subcommittee on General Services, Federalism, and the District of Columbia
 of the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the United States Senate for
 the committees' approval.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
SEC. 9. ESTABLISHMENT OF WEST VIRGINIA POLICE CORPS PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Governor of West Virginia, in consultation with the
 West Virginia Superintendent of Police, shall establish a pilot program
 under which West Virginia shall agree to assist not more than 25 eligible
 college students or graduates in paying loans or other financial obligations
 incurred in obtaining a baccalaureate or graduate degree if such a student
 or graduate agrees to serve not less than 4 years as a law enforcement
 officer in West Virginia.
 (b) APPROVAL OF PROGRAM- Not later than 60 days after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Governor of West Virginia shall submit a
 description of the program described in subsection (a), including any
 regulations proposed to implement such program, to the Subcommittee on
 General Services, Federalism, and the District of Columbia of the Committee
 on Governmental Affairs of the United States Senate for the subcommittee's
 approval.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.