 
--H.R.2174--
H.R.2174
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the establishment of the Mississippi River Corridor Study
Commission,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Mississippi River Corridor Study Commission
 Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds the following:
 (1) The Mississippi River flows through 10 States from its headwaters in the
 State of Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico and comprises a ribbon of commerce,
 history, archeology, wildlife habitat, urban and rural communities, and
 open space containing historical, recreational, natural, scenic, cultural,
 economic, and scientific resources of major significance to the Nation.
 (2) The national interest would be served by--
 (A) preserving, protecting, and enhancing such resources for the benefit
 of the people of the United States; and
 (B) improving the coordination between all levels of government in such
 corridor.
 (3) The preservation, protection, and enhancement of such resources has
 not been fully realized despite efforts by the States through which the
 Mississippi River flows, political subdivisions of such States, and volunteer
 associations and private businesses in such States.
 (4) Most existing Federal agency programs lack sufficient coordination with
 State and local planning and regulatory authorities to provide for resource
 management and economic development in a manner that is consistent with
 the protection and public use of the Corridor's resources.
 (5) The national Government should assist in coordinating preservation and
 interpretation activities of public and private entities with respect to
 the significant resources associated with the Mississippi River.
 (6) The establishment of a commission as provided for by this Act will--
 (A) focus attention on the unique and nationally significant resources of
 this region; and
 (B) provide a means and a stimulus for coordinating the preservation,
 protection, enhancement, enjoyment, and utilization of the resources of
 this region.
 (7) The establishment of such commission would provide a national entity to
 gather, assess, and disseminate information on the recreational, cultural,
 historic, natural, scenic, and economic opportunities in this region.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act:
 (1) The term `Commission' means the Mississippi River Corridor Study
 Commission.
 (2) The terms `Mississippi River Corridor' and `Corridor' mean the area
 included by the Commission in a proposed Mississippi River National Heritage
 Corridor.
 (3) The term `Mississippi River State' means any of the States of Arkansas,
 Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
 Tennessee, or Wisconsin.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
 There is established a Commission to be known as the Mississippi River
 Corridor Study Commission.
SEC. 5. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) STUDY- The Commission shall study and make recommendations regarding--
 (1) the feasibility of creating a Mississippi River National Heritage
 Corridor for the Mississippi River Corridor; and
 (2) the preservation, protection, enhancement, enjoyment, and utilization
 of the historic, economic, natural, recreational, scenic, cultural, and
 scientific resources of the Corridor consistent with the purposes of this Act.
 (b) INFORMATION COLLECTION; CONSULTATION- As part of the study conducted
 under subsection (a), the Commission shall--
 (1) assess the preservation, protection, enhancement, enjoyment, and
 utilization potential of the historic, economic, natural, recreational,
 scenic, cultural, and scientific resources of the Corridor;
 (2) collect information dealing with ongoing activities, management plans,
 and opportunities regarding historic, economic, natural, recreational,
 scenic, cultural, and scientific resources in the Corridor;
 (3) make such information available to Federal agencies, States and political
 subdivisions thereof, tribal governments, educational institutions,
 volunteer associations, and private businesses to assist such entities
 in undertaking activities to preserve, protect, enhance, or utilize the
 historic, economic, natural, recreational, scenic, cultural, or scientific
 resources of the Corridor;
 (4)(A) consult with the Mississippi River Parkway Commission, the Upper
 Mississippi River Basin Association, the Great River Road Association,
 the Lower Mississippi Delta Development Commission, and the Mississippi
 River Coordinating Commission; and
 (B) cooperate with such commissions and associations in the performance of
 their duties;
 (5) provide a forum for the consideration of resource issues relating to
 the Corridor;
 (6) seek and encourage the participation of affected State and local
 governments, interested citizens, public officials, groups, agencies,
 educational institutions, and others in the preservation, protection,
 enhancement, enjoyment, and utilization of the Corridor's resources;
 (7) recommend methods and means for educating the general population about
 the national importance and value of the Mississippi River as a natural
 resource and national treasure; and
 (8) make the Commission accessible to such groups, agencies, and citizens
 by holding at least one well publicized public hearing in every State within
 the Corridor.
 (c) REPORT- The Commission shall prepare a report--
 (1) specifying the results of the study conducted under subsection (a); and
 (2) containing--
 (A) a description of the Mississippi River Corridor and the proposed
 boundaries of a Mississippi River National Heritage Corridor (if so
 recommended) showing the primary corridor and such secondary zones as may
 be appropriate;
 (B) an inventory and assessment of the historic, economic, natural,
 recreational, scenic, cultural, and scientific resources of the Corridor;
 (C) specific preservation and interpretation goals and a priority timetable
 for their achievement;
 (D) proposed alternative management strategies whereby the funds, data,
 personnel, and authorities of public and private entities may be combined
 and coordinated in furtherance of the purposes of this Act;
 (E) proposed changes in Federal, State, and local laws and regulations that
 are needed to accomplish the purposes of this Act, in whole or in part;
 (F) proposals to improve guidance and assistance provided to Mississippi
 River States and political subdivisions thereof and other entities regarding
 their compliance with applicable provisions of the Clean Water Act (33
 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.),
 and related laws; and
 (G) such recommendations as the Commission may deem appropriate with
 respect to subparagraphs (A) through (F) and with respect to public access
 to and interpretation of the natural and cultural resources of the river
 and related outdoor recreation opportunities.
SEC. 6. ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- The Commission shall be composed of 15 members
 as follows:
 (1) The Director of the National Park Service (or designee).
 (2) The Secretary of Transportation (or designee).
 (3) The Secretary of Commerce (or designee).
 (4) The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (or designee).
 (5) The Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers (or designee).
 (6) One member from each Mississippi River State appointed by the Governor
 of such State from among the members of the Mississippi River Parkway
 Commission from such State.
 (b) FIRST APPOINTMENTS- Members of the Commission required by subsection
 (a) to be appointed shall be first appointed not later than 45 days after
 the effective date of this Act.
 (c) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner
 in which the orginal appointment is made.
 (d) TERMS- Members of the Commission shall be appointed for the life of
 the Commission.
 (e) PAY- Members of the Commission shall serve without pay.
 (f) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES- While away from their homes or regular
 places of business in the performance of services for the Commission,
 members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including a
 per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons
 employed intermittently in Government service are allowed travel expenses
 under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
 (g) QUORUM- (1) Nine members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum,
 but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
 (2) A member of the Commission may vote by means of a signed proxy exercised
 by another member of the Commission, but any member so voting shall not be
 considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum.
 (h) CHAIRPERSON- As the first item of business at the first meeting of the
 Commission, the members of the Commission shall elect a chairperson of the
 Commission from among the members appointed under subsection (a)(6).
 (i) MEETINGS- (1) The Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson
 or a majority of the members.
 (2) Not later than 30 days after the members of the Commission are first
 appointed, the Commission shall hold its first meeting.
 (3) The Director of the National Park Service shall select the date of
 the first meeting and shall serve as chairperson until the election of the
 chairperson under subsection (h).
SEC. 7. STAFF OF COMMISSION; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS; PERSONNEL OF FEDERAL
AGENCIES.
 (a) STAFF- The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such staff as the
 Commission considers appropriate subject to--
 (1) the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments
 in the competitive service; and
 (2) the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such
 title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
 (b) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Commission may procure temporary and
 intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
 (c) PERSONNEL OF STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS- The Commission may--
 (1) accept the services of personnel detailed from a Mississippi River
 State or a political subdivision thereof; and
 (2) reimburse such State or such subdivision for such services.
 (d) PERSONNEL OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- At the request of the Commission, the
 head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of
 the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in
 carrying out its duties under this Act.
SEC. 8. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this Act, the
 Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places,
 take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers
 appropriate.
 (b) POWERS OF MEMBERS AND AGENTS- Any member or agent of the Commission may,
 if so authorized by the Commission, take any action which the Commission
 is authorized to take by this section.
 (c) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
 manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
 the United States.
 (d) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES- The Administrator of General Services
 shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative
 support services as the Commission may request.
SEC. 9. SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.
 (a) INTERIM REPORT- Not later than two years after the date of the first
 meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the President,
 the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President of the Senate,
 and the Governor of each Mississippi River State a report describing the
 progress of the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission
 under section 5.
 (b) FINAL REPORT- Not later than 3 years after the date of the first
 meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the President,
 the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President of the Senate,
 and the Governor of each Mississippi River State the report required by
 section 5(c).
SEC. 10. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.
 Notwithstanding section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
 U.S.C. App.), the Commission shall cease to exist 90 days after submitting
 the report required by section 5(c) and submitted under section 9(b).
SEC. 11. CONSENT TO NEGOTIATE PROPOSED COMPACTS.
 The Congress hereby consents to the negotiation by any State referred to in
 section 3 with one or more of any other such State of proposed interstate
 agreements or compacts among such States in furtherance of the purposes of
 this Act or the study referred to in section 5 or any material component
 thereof.
SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated to the Commission to carry out this
 Act $500,000 for each fiscal year in which the Commission is in existence.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.