 
--H.R.4522--
H.R.4522
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To improve the information available to emergency response personnel in
the field,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Firefighters' Safety Study Act'.
SEC. 2. REVIEW.
 The Administrator of the United States Fire Administration (hereafter in
 this Act referred to as the `Administrator') shall conduct a review of
 existing response information used by emergency response personnel at the
 State and local levels to evaluate its accuracy and consistency, and to
 determine whether it is properly expressed. Such information should clearly
 communicate to emergency response personnel the probable hazards which they
 must contend with in an emergency situation involving hazardous materials,
 and the appropriate response to those hazards.
SEC. 3. WORKING GROUP.
 For the purpose of carrying out section 2, the Administrator shall establish
 a working group which shall, at a minimum, consist of--
 (1) program officials from each of--
 (A) the Environmental Protection Agency;
 (B) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
 (C) the Department of Transportation;
 (D) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; and
 (E) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms,
who develop and disseminate hazardous materials identification and response
data, and who collect, collate, analyze, and disseminate hazardous materials
incident data;
 (2) State and local operational officials with emergency response or relevant
 regulatory responsibilities; and
 (3) representatives of companies engaged in the manufacture and processing
 of chemicals.
SEC. 4. REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
 The working group established under section 3 shall, within 1 year after
 the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report to the Administrator
 and to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
 the Senate presenting the results of the review carried out under this Act,
 along with recommendations to ensure that response information disseminated
 to emergency response personnel is appropriate for operational personnel
 at the local level.
SEC. 5. ANNUAL REVISION OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
 After the submission of the report cited in section 4, the working group
 established under section 3 shall meet as needed, but at least once every 12
 months, to review and recommend changes and additions to the report cited
 in section 4, that are necessary and appropriate for operational personnel
 at the local level.
SEC. 6. DEFINITION.
 As used in this Act, the term `emergency response personnel' means personnel
 responsible for mitigation activities in a medical emergency, fire emergency,
 hazardous material emergency, or natural disaster.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.