 
--H.R.2494--
H.R.2494
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To reauthorize the Export-Import Bank tied aid credit fund and pilot
interest subsidy program, to provide for the participation of the United
States in a replenishment of the Inter-American Development Bank and in the
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the International Monetary Fund,
to improve the safety and soundness of the United States banking system and
encourage the reduction of the debt burdens of the highly indebted countries,
to encourage the multilateral development banks to engage in environmentally
sustainable lending practices and give greater priority to poverty alleviation,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `International Development
 and Finance Act of 1989'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT AMENDMENTS
Sec. 101. Export-Import Bank Act amendments.
Sec. 102. Extension of credit by Export-Import Bank with respect to Angola
prohibited unless certain conditions are met.
Sec. 103. Export-import programs to the People's Republic of China prohibited
unless certain conditions are met.
TITLE II--INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Sec. 201. Participation by the United States in a capital increase of the
InterAmerican Development Bank; increase in resources of fund for special
operations.
Sec. 202. Investment in human capital.
Sec. 203. Limitations on Inter-American Development Bank policy based lending.
Sec. 204. Increase in Inter-American Development Bank lending to the Caribbean.
Sec. 205. Sense of the Congress that Inter-American Development Bank loans
should reduce dependence on illicit narcotics.
Sec. 206. Directives regarding government-owned enterprises in countries
receiving IADB loans.
TITLE III--INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ENHANCED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT FACILITY
Sec. 301. Contribution to the interest subsidy account of the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility of the International Monetary Fund.
Sec. 302. Discussions to enhance the capacity of the International Monetary
Fund to alleviate the potentially adverse impacts of Fund programs on the
poor and the environment.
TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL DEBT PROVISIONS
Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Additional reserve requirements.
Sec. 403. Report on mark to market accounting.
Sec. 404. Study on elimination of capital flight.
Sec. 405. Factors to be taken into account in developing United States
policy toward debt reduction for certain highly indebted countries; report
to the Congress.
Sec. 406. Sense of the Congress that agreements to reduce debt burden should
be accompanied by trade liberalization.
Sec. 407. Linkage of debt reduction loans to reduction in drug trafficking;
report to Congress.
TITLE V--ALLEVIATION OF POVERTY; ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS; DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT
SWAPS; CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A--Alleviation of Poverty
Sec. 501. Increasing the productive economic participation of the poor.
Subtitle B--International Debt Exchanges and the Environment
Sec. 511. Sense of the Congress resolution regarding environmental policy
and international debt exchanges.
Sec. 512. Multilateral development banks and debt-for-nature exchanges.
Subtitle C--Environmental Impact Assessments
Sec. 521. Assessment of environmental impact of proposed multilateral
development bank actions.
Subtitle D--Debt-for-Development Swaps
Sec. 531. Encouragement of debt-for-development swaps through local currency
repayment.
Subtitle E--Consolidation of Certain Reporting Requirements
Sec. 541. Consolidation of certain reporting requirements.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 601. Sense of the Congress that the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the International Monetary Fund should expeditiously
act upon loan requests from Poland.
Sec. 602. Sense of the Congress supporting assistance by multilateral lending
institutions to establish financial institutions in Poland.
Sec. 603. Sense of the Congress relating to conditional financial assistance
by multilateral lending institutions to Poland.
Sec. 604. Sense of the Congress opposing the making of certain loans or
the extension of certain financial and technical assistance to the People's
Republic of China.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 701. Short title.
Part A--Commercial Debt-for Nature Exchanges
Sec. 711. Amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act.
Part B--Multilateral Foreign Assistance Corporation
Sec. 721. General policy.
Sec. 722. Policy on negotiations.
TITLE VIII--EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec. 801. Effective date.
TITLE I--EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT AMENDMENTS
SEC. 101. EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT AMENDMENTS.
 (a) INTEREST SUBSIDY PAYMENTS- Section 2(f) of the Export-Import Bank Act
 of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(f)) is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and
 (5) as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively;
 (2) by amending paragraph (3) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
 subsection) to read as follows:
 `(3) LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- To carry out this
 subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Bank not to
 exceed--
 `(A) $20,000,000, for fiscal year 1990; and
 `(B) $35,000,000, for fiscal year 1991.'; and
 (3) in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1) of this subsection),
 by striking `1988' and inserting `1991'.
 (b) TIED AID CREDIT PROGRAM AND FUND-
 (1) PURPOSE- Section 15(a)(5) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(a)(5)) is
 amended by striking all that follows `commercial advantage' and inserting
 `for the purposes of--
 `(A) enforcing compliance with the existing arrangement restricting the
 use of tied aid and partially untied aid credits for commercial purposes; and
 `(B) facilitating efforts to negotiate, establish, and enforce new or
 revised comprehensive international arrangements effectively restricting
 the use of tied aid and partially untied aid credits for commercial purposes;
and such program should be used aggressively for such purposes.'.
 (2) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The first sentence of section 15(b)(1) of such
 Act (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(b)(1)) is amended by striking the matter preceding
 subparagraph (A) and inserting `To carry out the purposes of subsection
 (a)(5), the Bank shall establish a tied aid credit program under which grants
 shall be made from funds available in the Tied Aid Credit Fund established
 under subsection (c)--'.
 (3) ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM- Section 15(b)(2)(A) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 635i-3(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking all that follows `to' and
 inserting `carry out the purposes described in subsection (a)(5);'.
 (4) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Section 15(c)(2) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 635i-3(c)(2)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `cost' and inserting `amount equal to the concessionality
 level'; and
 (B) by striking all that follows `authorized by the Bank' and inserting
 `through fiscal year 1991.'.
 (5) LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1990
 AND 1991- Section 15(e)(1) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(e)(1)) is amended
 by inserting `, and for fiscal years 1990 and 1991, $300,000,000' after
 `$300,000,000'.
 (6) REPORTS- Section 15(g)(2)(E) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(g)(2)(E))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(E) the progress achieved by negotiations conducted to carry out the
 purposes described in subsection (a)(5).'.
 (7) LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1990,
 1991, AND 1992- Section 15(e)(1) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(e)(1))
 is amended by inserting `, and for fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992,
 $200,000,000' after `$300,000,000'.
 (c) AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT REIMBURSEMENT FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES- Section 2(a)(1)
 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 635(a)(1)) is amended--
 (1) in the 6th sentence--
 (A) by striking `The Bank may' and inserting `Subject to regulations which
 the Bank shall issue pursuant to section 553 of title 5, United States Code,
 the Bank may'; and
 (B) by inserting `, and may accept reimbursement for travel and subsistence
 expenses incurred by a director, officer, or employee of the Bank, in
 accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code'
 before the period; and
 (2) in the 7th sentence, by inserting `and shall be offset against the
 expenses of the Bank for such activities' before the period.
 (d) CLARIFYING AMENDMENT- Section 2(b)(6)(G) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)(G)) is amended by striking `this paragraph' and inserting
 `subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (F)'.
 (e) REPORT WITH RESPECT TO LOAN LOSS RESERVES- Before the end of the
 6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section,
 the Export-Import Bank of the United States shall submit a report to the
 Congress explaining why the Bank has not established a loan loss reserve. In
 preparing such report, the Bank shall--
 (1) determine if the establishment of a loan loss reserve would result in
 the unproductive characterization of the creditworthiness of certain types
 of borrowers;
 (2) consult with the appropriate Executive branch entities to determine
 the budgeting and financial management implications of establishing a loan
 loss reserve;
 (3) review whether, and the extent to which similar bilateral and multilateral
 lending institutions make provision against loan losses; and
 (4) report on the steps needed to return the Bank to profitability.
SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF CREDIT BY EXPORT-IMPORT BANK WITH RESPECT TO ANGOLA
PROHIBITED UNLESS CERTAIN CONDITIONS ARE MET.
 Section 2(b) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b))
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(12) PROHIBITION RELATING TO ANGOLA- Notwithstanding any determination
 by the President under paragraph (2) or (11), the Bank may not guarantee,
 insure, or extend (or participate in the extension of) credit in connection
 with any export of any good (other than food or an agricultural commodity)
 or service to the People's Republic of Angola until the President certifies
 to the Congress that free and fair elections have been held in Angola in
 which all participants were afforded free and fair access, and that the
 government of Angola--
 `(A) is willing, and is actively seeking, to achieve an equitable political
 settlement of the conflict in Angola, including free and fair elections,
 through a mutual cease-fire and a dialogue with the opposition armed forces;
 `(B) has demonstrated progress in protecting internationally recognized
 human rights, and particularly in--
 `(i) ending, through prosecution or other means, involvement of members
 of the military and security forces in political violence and abuses of
 internationally recognized human rights;
 `(ii) vigorously prosecuting persons engaged in political violence who are
 connected with the government; and
 `(iii) bringing to justice those responsible for the abduction, torture,
 and murder of citizens of Angola and citizens of the United States; and
 `(C) has demonstrated progress in its respect for, and protection of--
 `(i) the freedom of the press;
 `(ii) the freedom of speech;
 `(iii) the freedom of assembly;
 `(iv) the freedom of association (including the right to organize for
 political purposes);
 `(v) internationally recognized worker rights; and
 `(vi) other attributes of political pluralism and democracy.
The President shall include in each report made pursuant to this paragraph a
detailed statement with respect to each of the conditions set forth in this
paragraph. This paragraph shall not be construed to impose any requirement
with respect to Angola that is more restrictive than any requirement imposed
by this section generally on all other countries.'.
SEC. 103. EXPORT-IMPORT PROGRAMS TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA PROHIBITED
UNLESS CERTAIN CONDITIONS ARE MET.
 (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to the provisions
 of subsections (b) and (c), the Export-Import Bank of the United States shall
 not finance any trade with, nor extend any loan, credit, credit guarantee,
 insurance or reinsurance to the People's Republic of China.
 (b) The prohibitions described in subsection (a) of this section shall not
 apply to food or agricultural commodities.
 (c) The President may waive the prohibitions in subsection (a) if he makes
 a report to Congress either--
 (1) that the Government of the People's Republic of China has made progress
 on a program of political reform throughout the country, as well as in Tibet,
 which includes--
 (A) lifting of martial law;
 (B) halting of executions and other reprisals against individuals for the
 nonviolent expression of their political beliefs;
 (C) release of political prisoners;
 (D) increased respect for internationally recognized human rights, including
 freedom of expression, the press, assembly, and association; and
 (E) permitting a freer flow of information, including an end to the jamming
 of Voice of America and greater access for foreign journalists; or
 (2) it is in the national interest of the United States to terminate a
 suspension under subsection (a).
TITLE II--INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SEC. 201. PARTICIPATION BY THE UNITED STATES IN A CAPITAL INCREASE OF THE
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK; INCREASE IN RESOURCES OF FUND FOR SPECIAL
OPERATIONS.
 The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.) is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 33. CAPITAL INCREASE; INCREASE IN RESOURCES OF FUND FOR SPECIAL
OPERATIONS.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO VOTE FOR, AND TO SUBSCRIBE AND CONTRIBUTE TO, INCREASE
 IN AUTHORIZED CAPITAL STOCK OF BANK AND INCREASE IN RESOURCES OF FUND FOR
 SPECIAL OPERATIONS-
 `(1) VOTE AUTHORIZED- The United States Governor of the Bank is authorized
 to vote for resolutions which--
 `(A) were transmitted by the Board of Executive Directors to the Governors
 of the Bank by resolution of April 19, 1989;
 `(B) are pending before the Board of Governors of the Bank; and
 `(C) provide for--
 `(i) an increase in the authorized capital stock of the Bank and subscriptions
 to the Bank; and
 `(ii) an increase in the resources of the Fund for Special Operations and
 contributions to the Fund.
 `(2) SUBSCRIPTION AND CONTRIBUTION AUTHORITY- To the extent and in the
 amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts, on adoption of the
 resolutions described in paragraph (1), the United States Governor of the
 Bank may, on behalf of the United States--
 `(A) subscribe to 760,112 shares of the increase in the authorized capital
 stock of the Bank; and
 `(B) contribute $82,304,000 to the Fund for Special Operations.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- To pay for the
 subscription and contribution authorized under subsection (a), there are
 authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, for payment
 by the Secretary of the Treasury--
 `(1) $9,169,559,712, for the United States subscription to the capital
 stock of the Bank; and
 `(2) $82,304,000, for the United States contribution to the Fund for
 Special Operations.
 `(c) ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES REQUIRED TO BE MADE BEFORE PAYMENT FOR
 SUBSCRIPTION TO CAPITAL STOCK AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE FUND FOR SPECIAL
 OPERATIONS- The Secretary of the Treasury may not make any payment for
 the subscription and contribution authorized under subsection (a) unless
 the Bank--
 `(1) has established an environmental unit with responsibility for the
 development, evaluation, and integration of Bank policies, projects, and
 programs designed to promote environmentally sustainable development in
 borrower countries;
 `(2) has increased the number of the staff of the Bank with environmentally
 oriented responsibilities and training;
 `(3) provides for an increase in the number of environmentally beneficial
 projects and programs financed by the Bank; and
 `(4) has designed a process for ensuring the access of indigenous
 non-governmental organizations to the process for designing projects and
 programs.
 `(d) CERTIFICATION OF ACCESS TO BANK RECORDS REQUIRED BEFORE PAYMENT
 FOR SUBSCRIPTION TO CAPITAL STOCK AND CONTRIBUTION TO FUND FOR SPECIAL
 OPERATIONS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall not make any payment for
 the subscription and contribution authorized under subsection (a) until the
 Secretary, after consultation with the United States Executive Director of
 the Bank, certifies to the Congress that--
 `(1) the Bank has given the Comptroller General of the United States access
 to the audit memorandum issued by the Auditor General of the Bank with respect
 to the November 1987 disbursement of funds to the Government of Nicaragua;
 `(2) the Bank has implemented and is continuing to implement revised
 procedures issued in 1988 for collecting loan services payments in arrears;
 `(3) the revised procedures referred to in paragraph (2) satisfy the
 recommendations of the Auditor General of the Bank; and
 `(4) the Comptroller General of the United States has access to all documents
 of the Bank on the same terms and under the same conditions as such documents
 are made available to the United States Executive Director of the Bank.'.
SEC. 202. INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL.
 (a) PROMOTION OF LENDING IN SUPPORT OF HUMAN CAPITAL- The Inter-American
 Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.) is amended by adding after
 the section added by section 201 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 34. INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank to
 propose and use the voice and vote of such director, during the 4-year
 period beginning on January 1, 1990, to vigorously promote an increase in
 the proportion of Bank lending in support of projects and programs which
 support investments in human capital and to seek the rapid implementation
 by the Bank of systematic mechanisms of consultation with locally affected
 populations in borrower countries either directly or through appropriate
 representative non-governmental organizations.
 `(b) INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL DEFINED- As used in subsection (a), the
 term `investments in human capital' means investments in projects, policies,
 and programs designed to improve urban and rural health care and sanitation,
 basic nutrition, education, the small-producer private sector, the economic
 activities of women, and the development of indigenous non-governmental
 organizations.'.
 (b) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- The Chairman of the National Advisory Council on
 International Monetary and Financial Policies shall include in the report
 required by section 1701 of the International Financial Institutions Act
 for fiscal year 1991 a report on the efforts undertaken by the United States
 Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, and the progress
 to date, in achieving the objectives of section 34 of the Inter-American
 Development Bank Act.
SEC. 203. LIMITATIONS ON INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK POLICY BASED LENDING.
 The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.) is amended
 by adding after the section added by section 202 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 35. LIMITATIONS ON POLICY BASED LENDING.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall--
 `(1) take all necessary steps to encourage the Bank to limit the aggregate
 value of the policy based loans made by the Bank (other than policy based
 loans made to any country which the Bank has determined is economically
 less developed or has a limited market economy, which are used to purchase
 sovereign debt of such country or to reduce the debt or debt service burden
 of such country) during the 4-year period beginning on January 1, 1990,
 to 25 percent of the aggregate value of all loans made by the Bank during
 such 4-year period;
 `(2) take all necessary steps to encourage the Bank to limit the aggregate
 value of the policy based loans made by the Bank to the government of
 a particular country during such 4-year period, to 50 percent of the
 aggregate value of all loans made by the Bank to such government during
 such 4-year period;
 `(3) instruct the United States Executive Director of the Bank to explore
 with the other Executive Directors of the Bank ways to use a portion of
 the resources made available to the Bank by reason of the subscription
 and contribution described in section 33(a)(2) for debt reduction and debt
 service reduction for countries described in paragraph (1); and
 `(4) before the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of the
 enactment of this section, report to the Congress on the matters described
 in paragraph (3).'.
SEC. 204. INCREASE IN INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK LENDING TO THE CARIBBEAN.
 The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.) is amended
 by adding after the section added by section 203 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 36. INCREASE IN LENDING TO THE CARIBBEAN.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the Bank to enter into discussions with the management of the
 Bank and with other member country governments to seek to increase Bank
 lending to the Caribbean region, directly or through appropriate financial
 intermediaries, for viable projects which will--
 `(1) result in expanded regional economic integration, diversification,
 and industrial and agricultural production, and improved infrastructure; and
 `(2) seek to ensure equitable and environmentally sustainable economic
 growth.'.
SEC. 205. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS THAT INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK LOANS
SHOULD REDUCE DEPENDENCE ON ILLICIT NARCOTICS.
 It is the sense of the Congress that, whenever possible and appropriate,
 loans made by the Inter-American Development Bank during the 4-year period
 beginning on January 1, 1990, should promote economic development which
 will reduce the growing economic dependence on the production and transit
 of illicit narcotics in certain borrower countries.
SEC. 206. DIRECTIVES REGARDING GOVERNMENT-OWNED ENTERPRISES IN COUNTRIES
RECEIVING IADB LOANS.
 The International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262c et seq.) is
 amended by redesignating section 1612 as section 1613 and by inserting
 after section 1611 the following:
`SEC. 1612. DIRECTIVES REGARDING GOVERNMENT-OWNED ENTERPRISES IN COUNTRIES
RECEIVING IADB LOANS.
 `(a) FINDING- The Congress finds that a principal focus of United States
 Government policy in the multilateral development banks has been and should
 be to foster greater development of the private sector in member borrowing
 countries of such banks.
 `(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO TRANSFORM GOVERNMENT-OWNED ENTERPRISES INTO
 PRIVATELY OWNED ENTERPRISES- In order to assist and strengthen the advancement
 of ongoing efforts to have the Inter-American Development Bank play a key
 role in building a viable private sector in member borrowing countries of
 such bank, and to further assist such bank in its determination to facilitate
 the transfer of government-owned enterprises in such countries to private
 ownership, the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States
 Executive Director of such bank to vigorously encourage the provision of
 technical assistance to such countries to transform enterprises owned,
 in whole or in part, by the governments of such countries into privately
 owned, self-sufficient enterprises. Such technical assistance may involve the
 valuation of the assets of such government-owned enterprises, the assessment
 of tender offers, and the creation or strengthening of market-based mechanisms
 to facilitate such a transfer of ownership.'.
TITLE III--INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ENHANCED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT FACILITY
SEC. 301. CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTEREST SUBSIDY ACCOUNT OF THE ENHANCED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT FACILITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et seq.) is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 54. CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTEREST SUBSIDY ACCOUNT OF THE ENHANCED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT FACILITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.
 `(a) CONTRIBUTION AUTHORIZED-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the United States Governor of
 the Fund may contribute $150,000,000 to the Interest Subsidy Account of
 the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the Fund on behalf of the
 United States.
 `(2) CONDITION- The United States Governor of the Fund may not make a
 commitment to contribute any amount authorized to be contributed under
 paragraph (1) before an amount equal to such amount has been appropriated
 for such purpose.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- To pay for the
 contribution authorized by subsection (a), there are authorized to be
 appropriated not to exceed $150,000,000, without fiscal year limitation,
 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
SEC. 302. DISCUSSIONS TO ENHANCE THE CAPACITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY
FUND TO ALLEVIATE THE POTENTIALLY ADVERSE IMPACTS OF FUND PROGRAMS ON THE
POOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et seq.) is amended by
 adding after the section added by section 301 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 55. DISCUSSIONS TO ENHANCE THE CAPACITY OF THE FUND TO ALLEVIATE THE
POTENTIALLY ADVERSE IMPACTS OF FUND PROGRAMS ON THE POOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the Fund to seek policy changes by the Fund, through formal
 initiatives and through bilateral discussions, which will result in--
 `(1) the initiation of a systematic review of policy prescriptions implemented
 by the Fund, for the purpose of determining whether the Fund's objectives were
 met and the social and environmental impacts of such policy prescriptions; and
 `(2) the establishment of procedures which ensure the inclusion, in future
 economic reform programs approved by the Fund, of policy options which
 eliminate or reduce the potential adverse impact on the well-being of the
 poor or the environment resulting from such programs.'.
TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL DEBT PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Foreign Debt Reserving Act of 1989'.
SEC. 402. ADDITIONAL RESERVE REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) since the adoption of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983,
 the credit quality of loans by United States banking institutions to highly
 indebted countries has deteriorated and the prospects for full repayment
 of such loans have diminished;
 (2) in general during this period, the level of country exposure and transfer
 risk associated with loans by United States banking institutions to highly
 indebted countries has not been adequately reflected in the reserve levels
 established by many individual United States banking institutions or the
 reserve requirements imposed by Federal banking agencies pursuant to such Act;
 (3) during the last 3 years and particularly in recent months, United States
 banking institutions have increased their reserves for possible losses from
 loans to highly indebted countries but such reserves remain, in some cases,
 significantly lower than reserves established by banking institutions in a
 number of foreign countries and may not be adequate to deal with potential
 risks; and
 (4) in order to fulfill the purposes of such Act, the Federal banking agencies
 should take a more active role in reviewing reserve levels established by
 United States banking institutions for potential losses from loans to highly
 indebted countries and in requiring appropriate levels of both special and
 general reserves to reflect the increased risk of such loans.
 (b) IN GENERAL- The International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12
 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 905 the following
 new section:
`SEC. 905A. ADDITIONAL RESERVE REQUIREMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall review the
 exposure to risk of United States banking institutions arising from the
 medium- and long-term loans made by such institutions that are outstanding
 to any highly indebted country. Each agency shall provide direction to
 such institutions regarding additions to general reserves maintained by
 each banking institution for potential loan losses and special reserves
 required by such agency arising from such review.
 `(b) DETERMINATION OF INSTITUTIONAL EXPOSURE TO RISK- In determining the
 exposure of an institution to risk for purposes of subsection (a), the
 appropriate Federal banking agency--
 `(1) shall determine whether any country exposure that is, and has been
 for at least 2 years, rated in the category `Other Transfer Risk Problems'
 or the category `Substandard' by the Interagency Country Exposure Review
 Committee should be reevaluated;
 `(2) may exempt, in full or in part, from reserve requirements established
 pursuant to subsection (a), any loan--
 `(A) to a country that enters into a debt reduction, debt service reduction,
 or financing program with its bank creditors that is supported by the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the International
 Monetary Fund; or
 `(B) secured, in whole or in part, by appropriate collateral for payment
 of interest or principal;
 `(3) take into account any other factors which bear on such exposure and
 the particular circumstances of the institution; and
 `(4) shall consider as indicators of risk, where appropriate, the average
 reserve levels maintained by or required of banking institutions in foreign
 countries and secondary market prices for such loans.
 `(c) TIMING AND REPORT-
 `(1) DETERMINED BY AGENCY- Except as provided in paragraph (3), each
 appropriate Federal banking agency shall determine the timing of any addition
 to reserves required by subsection (a).
 `(2) REPORT- Each appropriate Federal banking agency shall include in each
 report required to be made under section 913(d) after 1989 a report on the
 actions taken pursuant to this section.
 `(3) DEADLINE- Each Federal agency required to undertake a review described
 in subsection (a) shall complete the review not later than December 31, 1990.
 `(d) HIGHLY INDEBTED COUNTRY DEFINED- As used in this section, the term
 `highly indebted country' means any country designated as a `Highly Indebted
 Country' in the annual World Debt Tables most recently published by the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development before the date of
 the enactment of this section.'.
SEC. 403. REPORT ON MARK TO MARKET ACCOUNTING.
 (a) REPORT REQUIRED- Before the end of the 90-day period beginning on
 the date of the enactment of this section, the Board of Governors of the
 Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the
 Comptroller of the Currency shall jointly report to the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
 on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on the merits of mark
 to market accounting treatment as an appropriate accounting treatment for
 the sovereign debt of highly indebted countries which is held by United
 States commercial banks.
 (b) CONTENTS OF REPORT- The report required under subsection (a) shall
 include--
 (1) a discussion of the merits of mark to market accounting treatment as the
 appropriate accounting treatment for the sovereign debt of highly indebted
 countries which is held by United States commercial banks; and
 (2) a description of the factors which the Board of Governors of the
 Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and
 the Comptroller of the Currency will consider in future assessments of the
 applicability of mark to market accounting to such debt.
SEC. 404. STUDY ON ELIMINATION OF CAPITAL FLIGHT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund to propose
 that the Fund conduct a study on multilateral means by which the banking
 industry might help reverse capital flight from countries which are engaged
 in debt restructuring, including--
 (1) the feasibility of disclosing the names of account holders whose accounts
 may consist of flight capital, and the balances of such accounts;
 (2) the usefulness of such disclosures in deterring the creation and
 maintenance of such accounts, and how such deterrence would operate or
 be defeated;
 (3) the extent to which any such information is gathered and to whom such
 information is made available;
 (4) the receptiveness of such countries to the disclosure of such information;
 (5) the difficulties in, and the cost of, collecting such information and
 overcoming legal obstacles used to disguise the true ownership of such
 deposits, including the feasibility of using the threat of confiscatory
 penalties to prevent the disguising of the ownership of deposits;
 (6) the usefulness of using taxes as a means to encourage the repatriation
 of flight capital; and
 (7) the applicability (if any) of efforts to facilitate the identification,
 tracing, seizure, and forfeiture of drug crime proceeds, and to prevent the
 use of the banking system and of financial institutions for the purpose of
 money laundering.
 (b) FLIGHT CAPITAL DEFINED- As used in subsection (a), the term `flight
 capital' means any asset--
 (1)(A) which is deposited in a banking institution for safekeeping or
 investment purposes; or
 (B) for which a financial institution serves as a conduit, an agent, or a
 fiduciary in a transaction; and
 (2) the owner of which may be a legal resident of a country other than the
 country in which the institution is located.
 (c) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- Not later than the end of the 180-day period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
 Treasury shall submit to the Chairman of the Committee on Banking, Finance
 and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on
 Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report on the actions
 taken and studies completed as required by subsection (a).
SEC. 405. FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN DEVELOPING UNITED STATES
POLICY TOWARD DEBT REDUCTION FOR CERTAIN HIGHLY INDEBTED COUNTRIES; REPORT
TO THE CONGRESS.
 (a) FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT- In developing the policy of the United
 States Government with respect to debt reduction for each highly indebted
 country which has a substantial share of the export market for 1 or more
 agricultural commodities the export market for which the United States also
 has a substantial share, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider among
 other factors the effects of such policy on:
 (1) United States exports of such commodities.
 (2) The world price of such commodities.
 (3) Domestic agricultural production and land distribution patterns in
 such country.
 (4) The volume of exports from such country of agricultural commodities
 the export market for which such country has a substantial share of.
 (5) Basic nutrition levels in such country.
 (b) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- Before the end of the 12-month period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury
 shall submit a report to the Congress on the potential impact of such policy
 on such factors in the highly indebted countries.
 (c) HIGHLY INDEBTED COUNTRY DEFINED- As used in this section, the term
 `highly indebted country' means any country designated as a `Highly Indebted
 Country' in the annual World Debt Tables most recently published by the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development before the date of
 the enactment of this section.
SEC. 406. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS THAT AGREEMENTS TO REDUCE DEBT BURDEN SHOULD
BE ACCOMPANIED BY TRADE LIBERALIZATION.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) Third World debtor nations have often been forced to raise trade barriers
 in order to accumulate foreign exchange surpluses to repay debt obligations;
 (2) trade flows between such nations and the United States have lessened
 due to the debt crisis;
 (3) the reduction of trade barriers would benefit the world economy and
 promote economic growth; and
 (4) the Brady plan encourages debt reduction agreements on behalf of domestic
 financial institutions.
 (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary
 of the Treasury should continue to encourage trade liberalization as an
 element of economic reform programs.
SEC. 407. LINKAGE OF DEBT REDUCTION LOANS TO REDUCTION IN DRUG TRAFFICKING;
REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Brady Initiative is a positive step, recognizing as it does the need
 for reducing the debt and debt service burdens of the indebted developing
 countries;
 (2) the multilateral development banks should, as part of this debt
 reduction process, encourage such countries to further reform their
 economies by reducing their dependence on production and trafficking of
 illicit narcotics; and
 (3) reduction of debt should relieve some of the financial burden on these
 countries, and thereby enable them to rely on legal income-generating
 activities.
 (b) INSTRUCTION OF UNITED STATES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS- The Secretary of
 the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director of each
 multilateral development bank that, in voting with respect to loans from
 the multilateral development bank to reduce the debt and debt burden of
 borrowing countries which are major producers, processors, traffickers,
 or exporters of illegal drugs to the United States, the Executive Director
 shall give preference to those countries which show marked improvement in
 reducing the volume of cultivation, processing, trafficking, and export
 to the United States of illegal drugs. In making a determination under the
 preceding sentence with respect to a country's improvement, the Secretary
 of the Treasury shall consult with the heads of the relevant agencies.
 (c) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall include, in
 the detailed accounting required by section 2018(c) of the International
 Narcotics Control Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 2191 note), relating to multilateral
 development bank assistance for drug eradication and crop substitution
 programs, an additional discussion of the steps taken and the progress
 made in implementing the goals set forth in subsection (b) of this section,
 and further steps needed to secure the achievement of these goals.
 (d) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 (1) the term `multilateral development bank' includes the International Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association,
 the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank,
 the Inter-American Investment Corporation, the Asian Development Bank,
 the African Development Bank, and the African Development Fund; and
 (2) the term `illegal drugs' means `narcotic and psychotropic drugs and
 other controlled substances', as defined in section 481(i)(3) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(i)(3)).
TITLE V--ALLEVIATION OF POVERTY; ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS; DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT
SWAPS; CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A--Alleviation of Poverty
SEC. 501. INCREASING THE PRODUCTIVE ECONOMIC PARTICIPATION OF THE POOR.
 The International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262c et seq.) is
 amended by redesignating section 1613 (as so redesignated by section 206
 of this Act) as section 1614 and by inserting after section 1612 (as added
 by such section 206) the following:
`SEC. 1613. DISCUSSIONS TO INCREASE THE PRODUCTIVE ECONOMIC PARTICIPATION
OF THE POOR; REPORTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director for each multilateral development bank to vigorously
 and continually advocate, in all replenishment negotiations and in discussion
 with other directors of such bank and with such bank, the following:
 `(1) A major objective of such bank's operations and financing in each
 borrowing country, as a long term priority, should be to increase the
 productive role of the poor in the economy of such country.
 `(2) Such bank should encourage and assist each borrowing country to
 develop sustainable national plans and strategies to eliminate the causes
 and alleviate the manifestations of poverty which keep the poor from leading
 economically and socially productive lives. Such plans and strategies should
 give attention to--
 `(A) the enhancement of human resources, including programs for basic
 nutrition, primary health services, basic education, and safe water and
 basic sanitation;
 `(B) access to income-generating activities, employment, and productive
 assets such as land and credit; and
 `(C) consultation with public sector social agencies and local
 non-governmental organizations.
 `(3) As an integral element of ongoing policy dialogue with each borrowing
 country to design structural adjustment plans and project lending programs,
 such bank should provide assistance consistent with achieving the objectives
 of the country's national plan for increasing the productive economic
 participation of the poor. Such dialogue should be conducted with government
 agencies working in social and economic sectors and with non-governmental
 groups in the borrowing country, especially those that have grassroots
 involvement with poor people.
 `(4) In an annual review document, such bank should describe the extent to
 which the goal of increasing the productive economic participation of the poor
 is being advanced or retarded and the steps that are being taken to overcome
 obstacles to its fulfillment. Such review should be based on information
 contained in the bank's country implementation review documents and in the
 country strategy documents for each borrowing country. Such country strategy
 documents should describe the national strategy for productive economic
 participation of the poor and the steps the bank plans to take to assist the
 borrowing country during the period covered by the country strategy document.
 `(5) Such bank should assist countries in assessing and monitoring progress
 in achieving poverty alleviation goals and targets through measurement by
 appropriate social indicators.
 `(6) Such bank should adopt procedures and budgetary allocations for
 administrative purposes, and establish appropriate staffing levels,
 to ensure that adequate resources are available to implement the bank's
 program for enhancing the productive economic participation of the poor,
 in consultation with non-governmental groups.
 `(7) Such bank should adopt, as a separate and major criterion in the
 allocation of concessional financing resources, a preferential allocation to
 each country which undertakes significant efforts to enhance the productive
 economic participation of the poor.
 `(8) Such bank should require each country which receives structural
 adjustment assistance to have in place, after a reasonable phase-in period,
 a strategy to enhance the productive economic participation of the poor.
 `(b) PROGRESS REPORT- Before the end of the 1-year period beginning on
 the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury
 shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs and
 the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the
 Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the
 Senate, a report on the following:
 `(1) The status of advocacy and progress being made to implement the
 objectives of subsection (a), describing the success to date, the obstacles
 encountered, and future expectations of progress.
 `(2) A description of the progress to date in achieving the purposes of
 section 1611, including the institutional capacity and effort devoted to
 assisting in the development of statistical measures to assess the well-being
 of the poor.
 `(3) A description and evaluation of the progress to date in developing
 effective mechanisms for involving non-governmental organizations, directly
 or indirectly, in the design, implementation, and monitoring of development
 projects, programs, and policies of the multilateral development banks.'.
Subtitle B--International Debt Exchanges and the Environment
SEC. 511. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RESOLUTION REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
AND INTERNATIONAL DEBT EXCHANGES.
 It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the Secretary of the Treasury should include support for sustainable
 development and conservation projects when providing a framework for
 negotiating or facilitating exchanges or reductions of commercial debt of
 foreign countries; and
 (2) that in assisting or facilitating the reduction of debt of heavily
 indebted foreign countries, through multilateral institutions such as the
 International Monetary Fund or the International Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury should--
 (A) support efforts to provide adequate resources for sustainable development
 and conservation projects as a component of the restructured commercial
 bank debt of that country; and
 (B) in providing such support, seek to assure that--
 (i) the host government, or a local nongovernmental organization acting
 with the support of the host government, has identified conservation or
 sustainable development projects it will target for assistance;
 (ii) there will be in place an organization, either governmental or
 nongovernmental, that will have the commitment to assure the long-term
 viability of the project; and
 (iii) the allocation of the resources provided for conservation and
 sustainable development projects through the debt restructuring agreement
 is done in a manner that will not overwhelm or distort economic conditions
 in the host country.
SEC. 512. MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND DEBT-FOR-NATURE EXCHANGES.
 The International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262c et seq.) is
 amended by redesignating section 1614 (as so redesignated by section 501
 of this Act) as section 1617, and by inserting after section 1613 (as added
 by such section 501) the following:
`SEC. 1614. MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND DEBT-FOR-NATURE EXCHANGES.
 `(a) DIRECTIONS TO THE UNITED STATES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS- The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall direct the United States Executive Directors of the
 multilateral development banks to--
 `(1) negotiate for the creation in each respective multilateral development
 bank, except where the Secretary of the Treasury determines that the
 provisions of this subsection have previously been met, of a department
 that will--
 `(A) be responsible for environmental protection and resource conservation,
 including support for restoration, protection, and sustainable use policies;
 `(B) develop and monitor strict environmental guidelines and policies to
 govern lending activities; and
 `(C) actively promote, coordinate and facilitate debt-for-nature exchanges
 and the restoration, protection, and sustainable use of tropical forests,
 renewable natural resources, endangered ecosystems and species in debtor
 countries;
 `(2) support and encourage the approval of multilateral development bank
 loans which include provisions that foster and facilitate the implementation
 of a sound and effective environmental policy in the borrowing country;
 `(3) encourage the banks to assist such countries in reducing and
 restructuring private debt through the use of a portion of a project or
 policy based environmental loan in ways which will enable such countries
 to buy back private debt at a rate of discount available for such debt,
 at auction in the secondary market or through negotiations with creditors
 holding such debt;
 `(4) seek to ensure that staff of each bank facilitate debtor countries'
 collaboration with local and international non-governmental or private
 organizations in implementing debt-for-nature exchanges; and
 `(5) seek to ensure that each bank adopts policy guidelines which to the
 maximum extent possible provide for--
 `(A) the inclusion of sustainable use policies in loan agreements negotiated
 with borrower members;
 `(B) the adoption of economic programs to foster sound environmental
 policies; and
 `(C) the provision of debtor countries' policy changes or significant
 increases in financial resources for use in at least 1 of the following--
 `(i) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of the world's oceans
 and atmosphere;
 `(ii) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of diverse animal and
 plant species;
 `(iii) establishment, restoration, protection, and maintenance of parks
 and reserves;
 `(iv) development and implementation of sound systems of natural resource
 management;
 `(v) development and support of local conservation programs;
 `(vi) training programs to strengthen conservation institutions and increase
 scientific, technical, and managerial capabilities of individuals and
 organizations involved in conservation efforts;
 `(vii) efforts to generate knowledge, increase understanding, and enhance
 public commitment to conservation;
 `(viii) design and implementation of sound programs of land and ecosystem
 management; and
 `(ix) promotion of regenerative approaches in farming, forestry, and
 watershed management.
 `(b) NEGOTIATION OF GUIDELINES FOR RESTORATION, PROTECTION, OR SUSTAINABLE
 USE POLICIES- The United States Executive Directors of the multilateral
 development banks shall seek to negotiate with the other executive directors
 to provide guidelines for restoration, protection, or sustainable use
 policies. Pending the outcome of such negotiations, the United States
 Executive Directors shall consider restoration, protection, or sustainable
 use policies to be those which--
 `(1) support development that maintains and restores the renewable natural
 resource base so that present and future needs of debtor countries'
 populations can be met, while not impairing critical ecosystems and not
 exacerbating global environmental problems;
 `(2) are environmentally sustainable in that resources are conserved and
 managed in an effort to remove pressure on the natural resource base and to
 make judicious use of the land so as to sustain growth and the availability
 of all natural resources;
 `(3) support development that does not exceed the limits imposed by local
 hydrological cycles, soil, climate, vegetation, and human cultural practices;
 `(4) promote the maintenance and restoration of soils, vegetation,
 hydrological cycles, wildlife, critical ecosystems (tropical forests,
 wetlands, and coastal marine resources), biological diversity and other
 natural resources essential to economic growth and human well-being and shall,
 when using natural resources, be implemented to minimize the depletion of
 such natural resources; and
 `(5) take steps, wherever feasible, to prevent pollution that threatens
 human health and important biotic systems and to achieve patterns of energy
 consumption that meet human needs and relys on renewable resources.
 `(c) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN ITEMS IN GUIDELINES- The United States Executive
 Directors shall endeavor to include the provisions of paragraphs (1) through
 (5) of subsection (b) in the guidelines developed through the negotiations
 specified in this section.
`SEC. 1615. PROMOTION OF LENDING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to
 initiate discussions with the other executive directors of such bank and
 the management of such bank and propose that, in order to reduce the future
 need for bank lending for reforestation and restoration of environmentally
 degraded areas, the bank establish a project and policy based environmental
 lending program (including a loan a portion of which could be used to
 reduce and restructure private debt), to be made available to interested
 countries with a demonstrated commitment to natural resource conservation,
 which would be based on--
 `(1) the estimated long-term economic return which could be expected from
 the sustainable use and protection of tropical forests, including the value
 of tropical forests for indigenous people and for science;
 `(2) the value derived from such services as--
 `(A) watershed management;
 `(B) soil erosion control;
 `(C) the maintenance and improvement of--
 `(i) fisheries;
 `(ii) water supply regulation for industrial development;
 `(iii) food;
 `(iv) fuel;
 `(v) fodder; and
 `(vi) building materials for local communities;
 `(D) the extraction of naturally occurring products from locally controlled
 protected areas; and
 `(E) indigenous knowledge of the management and use of natural resources; and
 `(3) the long-term benefits expected to be derived from maintaining biological
 diversity and climate stabilization.
`SEC. 1616. PROMOTION OF INSTITUTION-BUILDING FOR NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
CONCERNED WITH THE ENVIRONMENT.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Directors of the multilateral development banks to vigorously promote the
 adoption of policies and procedures which seek to--
 `(1) increase collaboration with, and, where necessary, strengthen,
 nongovernmental organizations in such countries which are concerned with
 environmental protection by providing appropriate assistance and support
 for programs and activities on environmental protection; and
 `(2) encourage international collaboration for information exchange
 and project enhancement with nongovernmental organizations in developing
 countries which are concerned with environmental protection and government
 agencies and private voluntary organizations in developed countries which
 are concerned with environmental protection.'.
Subtitle C--Environmental Impact Assessments
SEC. 521. ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROPOSED MULTILATERAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK ACTIONS.
 Title XIII of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262m
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1308. ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROPOSED MULTILATERAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK ACTIONS.
 `(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED BEFORE FAVORABLE VOTE ON ACTION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Beginning 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
 section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States
 Executive Director of each multilateral development bank not to vote in favor
 of any action proposed to be taken by the respective bank which would have
 a significant effect on the human environment, unless for at least 120 days
 before the date of the vote--
 `(A) an assessment analyzing the environmental impacts of the proposed
 action and of alternatives to the proposed action has been completed by
 the borrowing country or the institution, and been made available to the
 board  of directors of the institution; and
 `(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), such assessment or a comprehensive
 summary of such assessment has been made available to the multilateral
 development bank, affected groups, and local nongovernmental organizations.
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS AND REPORTS-
 `(A) EXCEPTIONS- The requirement of paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply where
 the Secretary finds compelling reasons to believe that disclosure in any case
 described in paragraph (1) would jeopardize the confidential relationship
 between the borrower country and the respective bank.
 `(B) REPORTS BY SECRETARY- The Secretary shall submit a quarterly report
 in writing to the Committees specified in subsection (f)(1) of the findings
 described in subparagraph (A).
 `(b) ACCESS TO ASSESSMENTS IN ALL MEMBER COUNTRIES- The Secretary of the
 Treasury shall seek the adoption of policies and procedures, through
 discussions and negotiations with the other member countries of the
 multilateral development banks and with the management of such banks,
 which result in access by governmental agencies and interested members
 of the public of such member countries, to environmental assessments or
 documentary information containing comprehensive summaries of such assessments
 which discuss the environmental impact of prospective projects and programs
 being considered by such banks. Such assessments or summaries should be made
 available to such governmental agencies and interested members of the public
 at least 120 days before scheduled board action, and public participation
 in review of the relevant environmental information should be encouraged.
 `(c) CONSIDERATION OF ASSESSMENT- The Secretary of the Treasury shall--
 `(1) ensure that an environmental impact assessment or comprehensive summary
 of such assessment described in subsection (a) accompanies loan proposals
 through the agency review process; and
 `(2) take into consideration recommendations from all other interested
 Federal agencies and interested members of the public.
 `(d) DEVELOPMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR SYSTEMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT-
 The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with other Federal agencies,
 including the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of State,
 and the Council on Environmental Quality, shall--
 `(1) instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral
 development bank to initiate discussions with the other executive directors
 of the respective bank and to propose that the respective bank develop and
 make available to member governments of, and borrowers from, the respective
 bank, within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this section,
 a procedure for the systematic environmental assessment of development
 projects for which the respective bank provides financial assistance,
 taking into consideration the Guidelines and Principles for Environmental
 Impact Assessment promulgated by the United Nations Environmental Programme
 and other bilateral or multilateral assessment procedures; and
 `(2) in determining the position of the United States on any action proposed
 to be taken by a multilateral development bank, develop and prescribe
 procedures for the consideration of, among other things--
 `(A) the environmental impact assessment of the action described in subsection
 (a);
 `(B) interagency and public review of such assessment; and
 `(C) other environmental review and consultation of such action that is
 required by other law.
 `(e) USE OF UNITED STATES PERSONNEL- The Secretary of the Treasury, in
 consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Interior,
 the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Chairman of
 the Council on Environmental Quality, the Administrator of the Agency for
 International Development, and the Administrator of the National Oceanic
 and Atmospheric Administration, shall--
 `(1) make available to the multilateral development banks, without charge,
 appropriate United States Government personnel to assist in--
 `(A) training bank staff in environmental impact assessment procedures;
 `(B) providing advice on environmental issues;
 `(C) preparing environmental studies for projects with potentially significant
 environmental impacts; and
 `(D) preparing documents for public release, and developing procedures to
 provide for the inclusion of interested nongovernmental organizations in
 the environmental review process; and
 `(2) encourage other member countries of such banks to provide similar
 assistance.
 `(f) REPORTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the
 Committees on Foreign Relations and Environment and Public Works of the
 Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House
 of Representatives--
 `(A) not later than the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of
 the enactment of this section, a progress report on the efficacy of efforts
 by the United States to encourage consistent and timely environmental
 impact assessment of actions proposed to be taken by the multilateral
 development banks and on the progress made by the multilateral development
 banks in developing and instituting environmental assessment policies and
 procedures; and
 `(B) not later than January 1, 1993, a detailed report on the matters
 described in subparagraph (A).
 `(2) AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS- The reports required by paragraph (1) shall
 be made available to the member governments of, and the borrowers from,
 the multilateral development banks, and to the public.'.
Subtitle D--Debt-for-Development Swaps
SEC. 531. ENCOURAGEMENT OF DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT SWAPS THROUGH LOCAL CURRENCY
REPAYMENT.
 (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) debt-for-development swaps, where payment is made in local currency at the
 free market rate, serve a useful purpose by providing banking institutions
 with constructive opportunities for the reduction of the external debt
 of highly indebted developing countries in a process that involves the
 participation of private, nonprofit groups in providing a stimulus to the
 economic and social development of such developing countries;
 (2) debt-for-development swaps provide highly indebted developing countries
 with a creative method of reducing external debt burdens, while promoting
 their economic growth and restructuring objectives;
 (3) banking institutions should give careful consideration to engaging in
 such swaps as one means of strengthening overall loan portfolios through
 the reduction of high external debt burdens while expanding economic
 opportunities through private sector initiatives; and
 (4) in order to avoid any bias against such swaps in the regulatory framework
 applicable to the financial reporting of banking institutions,  where payment
 is made in local currency at the free market rate, appropriate recognition
 of the fair market exchange value of the currency so received should be made.
 (b) NOTIFICATION RELATING TO LOCAL CURRENCY REPAYMENT THROUGH
 DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT SWAPS- Before the end of the 6-month period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this section, each appropriate Federal
 banking agency shall adopt uniform guidelines that will effectuate the
 policy set forth in subsection (a) concerning the regulatory framework and
 accounting treatment of debt-for-development swaps involving repayment in
 local currency at the free market rate. For the purpose of such guidelines,
 the impact of such swaps on reported loan loss reserves shall be determined
 by valuing currency received in such swaps at fair market exchange value.
 (c) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
 (1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY- The term `appropriate Federal
 banking agency' has the meaning given such term in section 903(1) of the
 International Lending Supervision Act of 1983.
 (2) BANKING INSTITUTION- The term `banking institution' has the meaning
 given such term in section 903(2) of the International Lending Supervision
 Act of 1983.
 (3) DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT SWAP- The term `debt-for-development swap' has
 the meaning given such term in section 1608(b)(2) of the International
 Financial Institutions Act.
 (4) HIGHLY INDEBTED COUNTRY- The term `highly indebted country' means any
 country designated as a `Highly Indebted Country' in the annual World Debt
 Tables most recently published by the International Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development before the date of the enactment of this section.
Subtitle E--Consolidation of Certain Reporting Requirements
SEC. 541. CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262c
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`TITLE XVII--CONSOLIDATED REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
`SEC. 1701. ANNUAL REPORT BY CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL ON
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY AND FINANCIAL POLICIES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Chairman shall report annually to the Speaker of
 the House of Representatives, the President of the Senate, and to the
 President of the United States on the participation of the United States in
 the international financial institutions. The Chairman shall present such
 report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of
 the Senate not later than April 1 of each year following the close of the
 fiscal year covered by such report, except that the report for fiscal year
 1989 shall be submitted not later than June 1, 1990.
 `(b) CONTENTS OF REPORTS- Each annual report required by subsection (a)
 shall contain--
 `(1) such data and explanations concerning the effectiveness, operations, and
 policies of the international financial institutions, such recommendations
 concerning the international financial institutions, and such other data
 and material as the Chairman may deem appropriate;
 `(2) the reports on each specific issue and topic which is required by any
 other provision of law to be included in the report of the National Advisory
 Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies required by section
 4(b)(5) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, as in effect immediately before
 the date of the enactment of this section;
 `(3) a description of each loan or other form of financial assistance approved
 by any international financial institution during the fiscal year covered by
 such report, and a discussion of how such loan or financial assistance will
 benefit the people, particularly the poor people, of the recipient country;
 `(4) a review of the success achieved through the multilateral development
 banks in reducing or eliminating import restrictions and unfair export
 subsidies which--
 `(A) have been determined to be consistent with international agreements; and
 `(B) have a serious adverse impact on the United States;
 `(5) a description of the actions taken and the progress made in carrying
 out subsections (a) and (b) of section 45 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act;
 `(6) the report required by section 2018(c) of the International Narcotics
 Act of 1986 (title II of Public Law 99-570), discussing the actions taken
 and progress made in encouraging the multilateral development banks to
 finance drug eradication and crop substitution programs;
 `(7) a description of the progress made by the United States Executive
 Director of the International Monetary Fund with respect to the goals of
 section 55 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act;
 `(8) a description of the status of procedures in the multilateral development
 banks specifically designed to increase the productive role of the poor in
 the economies of the nations which are borrowers from such banks;
 `(9) in consultation with the Secretary of State, a report on the progress
 toward achieving the goals of title VII (other than section 704), including
 the information required to be reported pursuant to section 701(c), and,
 for the fiscal year 1990, the report described in section 1613;
 `(10) in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Administrator
 of the Agency for International Development, an assessment of the progress
 being made to implement the objectives of title XIII; and
 `(11) a report on--
 `(A) the progress made in transforming government-owned enterprises into
 privately owned enterprises as described in section 1612(b);
 `(B) the performance of the privately owned enterprises resulting from such
 transformation; and
 `(C) the contributions of development finance companies toward strengthening
 the private sector in member borrowing countries.
 `(c) DEFINITIONS- As used in this title, title XVIII, and title XIX:
 `(1) CHAIRMAN- The term `Chairman' means the Chairman of the National
 Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies.
 `(2) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS- The term `international financial
 institutions' means the International Monetary Fund, International Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development, International Development Association,
 International Finance Corporation, Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency,
 African Development Bank, African Development Fund, Asian Development Bank,
 Inter-American Development Bank, and Inter-American Investment Corporation.
 `(3) MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTIONS- The term `multilateral development
 institutions' means the international financial institutions other than
 the International Monetary Fund.
 `(4) MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS- The term `multilateral development banks'
 means the multilateral development institutions other than the Multilateral
 Investment Guarantee Agency.
 `(d) TESTIMONY REQUIRED- Upon request of the Committee on Banking, Finance
 and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Chairman shall
 testify before the Committee to support and explain each annual report
 required by subsection (a). If the President has delegated to a person
 or persons other than the Chairman the authority to manage United States
 participation in the international financial institutions which was vested
 in the President by section 1(b) of the Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1965,
 such person or persons shall, upon request of the Committee, accompany the
 Chairman and testify before the Committee with regard to such report. The
 Chairman and such other person or persons shall assess, in their testimony,
 the effectiveness of the international financial institutions, the major
 issues affecting United States participation, the major developments in the
 past year, the prospects for the coming year, United States policy goals
 with respect to the international financial institutions, and any specific
 issues addressed to them by any member of the Committee.
`SEC. 1702. TRANSMISSION TO THE CONGRESS OF OPERATING SUMMARIES OF THE
MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall transmit to the Congress, on a
 monthly basis, current copies of the Monthly Operating Summary of the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, showing the loan
 proposals or appraisal reports under consideration and the status of
 those loan proposals or appraisal reports within the Bank. The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall also transmit to the Congress, at such times as may
 be appropriate, comparable documents prepared by the other multilateral
 development banks which show the loans or credits under consideration in
 the other multilateral development banks.
`SEC. 1703. COMBINED REPORT ON EFFECT OF PENDING MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
LOANS ON ENVIRONMENT, NATURAL RESOURCES, PUBLIC HEALTH, AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES.
 `Not later than April 1 and October 1 of each year, the Administrator of the
 Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary
 of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Committee
 on Appropriations and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs
 of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations and
 the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, as a combined report, the
 reports required by section 1303(c) of this Act and by section 537(h)(2) of
 the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1988 (sec. 1(e) of Public Law 100-202).
`TITLE XVIII--EXPORT ENHANCEMENT
`SEC. 1802. PROCUREMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR UNITED STATES FIRMS.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Directors of the multilateral development institutions to take all possible
 steps to ensure that information relating to potential procurement
 opportunities for United States firms is expeditiously communicated to
 the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary
 of Commerce, and is disseminated as widely as possible to large and small
 businesses.
`TITLE XIX--PERSONNEL PRACTICES
`SEC. 1901. PERSONNEL PRACTICES.
 `(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It shall be the policy of the United States that
 no initiatives, discussions, or recommendations concerning the placement or
 removal of any personnel employed by the international financial institutions
 shall be based on the political philosophy or activity of the individual
 under consideration.
 `(b) CONSULTATION- The Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the
 Chairman and the ranking minority member of the Committee on Banking, Finance
 and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign
 Relations of the Senate before any discussion or recommendations by any
 official of the United States Government concerning the placement or removal
 of any principal officer of any international financial institutions.'.
 (b) TRANSFER OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
 PROCUREMENT- (1) Section 3202 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness
 Act of 1988 (22 U.S.C. 262a) is hereby transferred to the International
 Financial Institutions Act, inserted after the heading of title XVIII
 (as added by the amendment made by subsection (a) of this section), and
 redesignated as section 1801.
 (2) Section 2302 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 4722) is hereby transferred to the International Financial
 Institutions Act, inserted after section 1802 (as added by the amendment
 made by subsection (a) of this section), redesignated as section 1803,
 and amended by striking subsection (c).
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 701(c) of the International Financial
 Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262d(c)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c)(1) Not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, the
 Secretary of the Treasury shall report quarterly on all loans considered by
 the Boards of Executive Directors of the institutions listed in subsection
 (a) to the Chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, or the designees
 of such Chairman and ranking minority member, and the Chairman and ranking
 minority member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
 `(2) Each report required by paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) include a list of all loans considered by the Board of Executive
 Directors of the institutions listed in subsection (a) and shall specify
 with respect to each such loan--
 `(i) the institution involved;
 `(ii) the date of final action;
 `(iii) the borrower;
 `(iv) the amount;
 `(v) the project or program;
 `(vi) the vote of the United States Government;
 `(vii) the reason for United States Government opposition, if any;
 `(viii) the final disposition of the loan; and
 `(ix) if the United States Government opposed the loan, whether the loan
 meets basic human needs;
 `(B) indicate whether the United States has opposed any loan, financial
 assistance, or technical assistance to a country on human rights grounds;
 `(C) indicate whether the United States has voted in favor of a loan,
 financial assistance, or technical assistance to a country with respect
 to which the United States had, in the preceding 2 years, opposed a loan,
 financial assistance, or technical assistance on human rights grounds; and
 `(D) in cases where the United States changed its voting position from
 opposition to support or from support to opposition, on human rights grounds--
 `(i) indicate the policy considerations that were taken into account in
 the development of the United States voting position;
 `(ii) describe human rights conditions in the country involved;
 `(iii) indicate how the United States voted on all other loans, financial
 assistance, and technical assistance to such country during the preceding
 2 years; and
 `(iv) contain information as to how the United States voting position
 relates to the overall United States Government policy on human rights in
 such country.'.
 (d) REPEALS- The following provisions of law are hereby repealed:
 (1) Paragraphs (5) and (6) of section 4(b), and sections 15(b), 30(b),
 33(c), and 50, of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286b(b)
 (5) and (6), 286e-9(b), 286s(c), and 286b-2).
 (2) Section 4(b) of the Asian Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 285b(b)).
 (3) Section 12 of the Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283i).
 (4) Sections 701(g)(1), 1103, 1307, and 1602(d) of the International Financial
 Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262d(g)(1), 262g-2 note, 262m-6, and 262p-1(d)).
 (5) Chapter 3 of Public Law 91-599 (84 Stat. 1658).
 (6) Sections 102 and 401 of Public Law 96-259 (22 U.S.C. 283 note and 262i).
 (7) Sections 1005 and 1006 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1984
 (Public Law 98-181; 22 U.S.C. 276c-3).
 (8) Section 537(c) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
 Programs Appropriations Act, 1988 (sec. 101(e) of Public Law 100-202;
 22 U.S.C. 262l(c)).
 (e) OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The following provisions of law are each
 amended by striking the last sentence:
 (1) Section 4 of the International Finance Corporation Act (22 U.S.C. 282b).
 (2) Section 4 of the Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283b).
 (3) Section 204 of the Inter-American Investment Corporation Act (22
 U.S.C. 283cc).
 (4) Section 4 of the International Development Association Act (22
 U.S.C. 284b).
 (5) Section 408 of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency Act (22
 U.S.C. 290k-5).
 (6) Section 204 of the African Development Fund Act (22 U.S.C. 290g-2).
 (7) Section 1335 of the African Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 290i-3).
 (8) Section 701(d) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22
 U.S.C. 262d(d)).
 (f) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS-
 (1) Section 4(b) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286b(b))
 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (5) and
 (6), respectively.
 (2) Section 30 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286e-9)
 is amended by striking `(a)'.
 (3) Section 4 of the Asian Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 285b-9) is
 amended by striking `(a)'.
 (4) Title XIII of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262m
 et seq.) is amended by redesignating section 1308 (as added by section 521
 of this Act) as section 1307.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS THAT THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT AND THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND SHOULD EXPEDITIOUSLY
ACT UPON LOAN REQUESTS FROM POLAND.
 It is the sense of the Congress that, based on the liberalization of Poland's
 economic system and the opening of its economic system to market forces,
 the Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the United States Executive
 Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
 of the International Monetary Fund to urge upon their colleagues that their
 respective institutions move as expeditiously as possible in considering and
 acting upon loan requests from, and in disbursing approved loans to, Poland.
SEC. 602. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS SUPPORTING ASSISTANCE BY MULTILATERAL LENDING
INSTITUTIONS TO ESTABLISH FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN POLAND.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of the Treasury should
 instruct the United States Executive Directors of the multilateral development
 banks (as defined in section 1617 of the International Financial Institutions
 Act), of the International Finance Corporation, and of the Multilateral
 Investment Guarantee Agency to enter into discussions with the other
 executive directors of such institutions and, in such discussions, urge
 such institutions to consider and act promptly upon (and, in the case of
 the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, after Poland becomes a member
 country of such institution) requests by individuals and private businesses
 in, and the Government of, Poland for financial and technical assistance
 in the establishment of financial institutions (including institutions such
 as credit unions, thrift institutions, and commercial banks) and businesses
 involved in the provision of credit and financial services.
SEC. 603. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RELATING TO CONDITIONAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
BY MULTILATERAL LENDING INSTITUTIONS TO POLAND.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of the Treasury should
 instruct the United States Executive Directors of the multilateral development
 banks (as defined in section 1617 of the International Financial Institutions
 Act), of the International Monetary Fund, of the International Finance
 Corporation, and of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency to enter
 into discussions with the other executive directors of such institutions
 and propose that such institutions not provide financial assistance or debt
 forgiveness to Poland until the government of Poland allows and facilitates
 privately owned entities established in foreign countries to invest in
 private commercial ventures in Poland.
SEC. 604. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS OPPOSING THE MAKING OF CERTAIN LOANS OR
THE EXTENSION OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Government of the People's Republic of China ordered the People's
 Liberation Army to brutally attack peaceful demonstrators who had assembled
 in Tiananmen Square;
 (2) this attack violated the human rights of the demonstrators;
 (3) several thousand innocent and defenseless protesters were killed in
 the initial assault;
 (4) these violations of human rights have evolved into a pattern of
 continuing repression and reprisals against citizens throughout China as
 evidenced by the beating of alleged dissidents, the order to the army to shoot
 `rioters'--the Chinese Government's term for the peaceful demonstrators--on
 sight, the mass arrest of students and workers, the public declarations by
 government-controlled media that physicists Fang Lizhi and Li Shuxian (who
 are being given refuge in the United States Embassy in Beijing) are `guilty'
 before being afforded due process, and the banning of all independent,
 unofficial prodemocracy organizations;
 (5) the Government of the People's Republic of China is trying to suppress
 truthful accounts of the actions taken in Beijing and throughout the country,
 by, among other things, expelling foreign journalists, including the local
 bureau chief of the Voice of America, from the country;
 (6) the People's Republic of China has received almost $8,000,000,000
 in development loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development, and increasing amounts of assistance from the Asian Development
 Bank;
 (7) it is morally repugnant that, through such multilateral development banks,
 United States taxpayer dollars are used to support the present policies of
 the People's Republic of China;
 (8) such development loans cannot be justified on economic grounds because
 economic development and market reforms cannot be achieved in the environment
 of repression that now clearly exists there; and
 (9) the People's Republic of China is engaging in `a pattern of gross
 violations of internationally recognized human rights . . . such as flagrant
 denial to life, liberty, and the security of person'.
 (b) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the President
 should--
 (1) instruct the United States Executive Directors of the International
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank to
 use their voices and votes to oppose the making of any loan or the extension
 of any financial or technical assistance to the People's Republic of China,
 in accordance with section 701(f) of the International Financial Institutions
 Act; and
 (2) consider the People's Republic of China to be a country described
 in section 701(a)(1) of such Act until the President determines that the
 repression and reprisals against persons in connection with the prodemocracy
 demonstrations have ended.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Global Environmental Protection Assistance
 Act of 1989'.
PART A--COMMERCIAL DEBT-FOR-NATURE EXCHANGES
SEC. 711. AMENDMENT TO THE FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT.
 The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting after chapter
 6 of part I the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 7--DEBT-FOR-NATURE EXCHANGES
 `SEC. 461. DEFINITION- For purpose of this chapter, the term `debt-for-nature
 exchange' means the cancellation or redemption of the foreign debt of the
 government of a country in exchange for--
 `(1) that government's making available local currencies (including through
 the issuance of bonds) which are used only for eligible projects involving
 the conservation or protection of the environment in that country (as
 described in section 463); or
 `(2) that government's financial resource or policy commitment to take
 certain specified actions to ensure the restoration, protection, or
 sustainable use of natural resources within that country; or
 `(3) a combination of assets and actions under both paragraphs (1) and (2).
 `SEC. 462. ASSISTANCE FOR COMMERCIAL DEBT EXCHANGES- (a) The Administrator of
 the Agency for International Development is authorized to furnish assistance,
 in the form of grants on such terms and conditions as may be necessary,
 to nongovernmental organizations for the purchase on the open market of
 discounted commercial debt of a foreign government of an eligible country
 which will be canceled or redeemed under the terms of an agreement with
 that government as part of a debt-for-nature exchange.
 `(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a grantee (or any subgrantee)
 of the grants referred to in subsection (a) may retain, without deposit in the
 Treasury of the United States and without further appropriation by Congress,
 interest earned on the proceeds of any resulting debt-for-nature exchange
 pending the disbursements of such proceeds and interest for approved program
 purposes, which may include the establishment of an endowment, the income
 of which is used for such purposes.
 `SEC. 463. ELIGIBLE PROJECTS- (a) The Administrator of the Agency for
 International Development shall seek to ensure that debt-for-nature exchanges
 under this chapter support one or more of the following activities by either
 the host government, a local private conservation group, or a combination
 thereof:
 `(1) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of the world's oceans
 and atmosphere;
 `(2) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of diverse animal and
 plant species;
 `(3) establishment, restoration, protection, and maintenance of parks
 and reserves;
 `(4) development and implementation of sound systems of natural resource
 management;
 `(5) development and support of local conservation programs;
 `(6) training programs to strengthen conservation institutions and increase
 scientific, technical, and managerial capabilities of individuals and
 organizations involved in conservation efforts;
 `(7) efforts to generate knowledge, increase understanding, and enhance
 public commitment to conservation;
 `(8) design and implementation of sound programs of land and ecosystem
 management; and
 `(9) promotion of regenerative approaches in farming, forestry, fishing,
 and watershed management.
 `(b)(1) In cooperation with nongovernmental organizations, the Administrator
 of the Agency for International Development shall seek to identify those
 areas, which because of an imminent threat, are in particular need of
 immediate attention to prevent the loss of unique biological life or
 valuable ecosystem.
 `(2) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
 encourage as many eligible countries as possible to propose such exchanges
 with the purpose of demonstrating to a large number of governments the
 feasibility and benefits of sustainable development.
 `SEC. 464. ELIGIBLE COUNTRIES- In order for a foreign country to be
 eligible to participate in a debt-for-nature exchange under this chapter,
 the Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
 determine that--
 `(1) the host country is fully committed to the long-term viability of the
 program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
 exchange;
 `(2) a long-term plan has been prepared by the host country, or private
 conservation group, which adequately provides for the long-term viability of
 the program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
 exchange or that such a plan will be prepared in a timely manner; and
 `(3) there is a government agency or a local nongovernmental organization,
 or combination thereof, in the host country with the capability, commitment,
 and record of environmental concern to oversee the long-term viability of
 the program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
 exchange.
 `SEC. 465. TERMS AND CONDITIONS- (a) The terms and conditions for making
 grants under this chapter shall be deemed to be fulfilled upon final
 approval by the Administrator of the Agency for International Development
 of the debt-for-nature exchange, a certification by the nongovernmental
 organization that the host government has accepted the terms of the exchange,
 and that an agreement has been reached to cancel the commercial debt in an
 agreed upon fashion.
 `(b) Grants made under this section are intended to complement, and not
 substitute for, assistance otherwise available to a foreign country under
 this Act or any other provision of law.
 `(c) The United States Government is prohibited from accepting title or
 interest in any land in a foreign country as a condition on the debt exchange.
 `SEC. 466. PILOT PROGRAM FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA- (a) The Administrator of the
 Agency for International Development, in cooperation with nongovernmental
 conservation organizations, shall invite the government of each country in
 sub-Saharan Africa to submit a list of those areas of severely degraded
 national resources which threaten human survival and well-being and the
 opportunity for future economic growth or those areas of biological or
 ecological importance within the territory of that country.
 `(b) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
 assess the list submitted by each country under subsection (a) and shall
 seek to reach agreement with the host country for the restoration and future
 sustainable use of those areas.
 `(c)(1) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development
 is authorized to make grants, on such terms and conditions as may be
 necessary, to nongovernmental organizations for the purchase on the open
 market of discounted commercial debt of a foreign government of an eligible
 sub-Saharan country in exchange for commitments by that government to
 restore natural resources identified by the host country under subsection
 (a) or for commitments to develop plans for sustainable use of such resources.
 `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a grantee (or any subgrantee)
 of the grants referred to in section (a) may retain, without deposit in the
 Treasury of the United States and without further appropriation by Congress,
 interest earned on the proceeds of any resulting debt-for-nature exchange
 pending the disbursements of such proceeds and interest for approved program
 purposes, which may include the establishment of an endowment, the income
 of which is used for such purposes.'.
PART B--MULTILATERAL FOREIGN ASSISTANCE COORDINATION
SEC. 721. GENERAL POLICY.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State should seek to
 develop an increased consideration of global warming, tropical deforestation,
 sustainable development, and biological diversity among the highest goals
 of bilateral foreign assistance programs of all countries.
SEC. 722. POLICY ON NEGOTIATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of State, acting through the United States
 representative to the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization
 for Economic Coordination and Development (OECD), should initiate, at
 the earliest practicable date, negotiations among member countries on a
 coordinated approach to global warming, tropical deforestation, sustainable
 development, and biological diversity through bilateral assistance programs
 that would include--
 (1) increased consideration of the impact of developmental projects on
 global warming, tropical deforestation, and biological diversity;
 (2) reduction or elimination of funding for those projects that exacerbate
 those problems;
 (3) coordinated research and development of projects that emphasize
 sustainable use or protection of tropical forests and support for local
 conservation efforts;
 (4) expanded use of forgiveness of foreign assistance debt in exchange for
 policy changes or programs that address problems associated with global
 warming, tropical deforestation, sustainable development, and biological
 diversity;
 (5) increased use of foreign assistance funds and technical assistance
 in support of local conservation, restoration, or sustainable development
 efforts and debt-for-nature exchanges;
 (6) improved exchange of information on energy efficiency and solar and
 renewable energy sources, and a greater emphasis on the use of those sources
 of energy in developmental projects; and
 (7) increased use of environmental experts in the field to assess development
 projects for their impact on global warming, tropical deforestation, and
 biological diversity.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION OF AGREEMENT- Negotiations described in subsection (a)
 shall seek to ensure that the recommended changes are implemented as quickly
 as possible by member countries of the Development Assistance Committee.
TITLE VIII--EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 801. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 Except as otherwise provided in this Act, this Act and the amendments made
 by this Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.