 
--H.R.422--
H.R.422
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend the Department of Transportation Act to reauthorize local rail service
assistance.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Local Rail Service Reauthorizing Act'.
SEC. 2. LOCAL RAIL FREIGHT ASSISTANCE.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 5(q) of the Department of
 Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1654(q)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and not to exceed $8,000,000 for the fiscal year ending
 September 30, 1988' and inserting in lieu thereof `not to exceed $8,000,000
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1988, not to exceed $10,000,000
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1989, and not to exceed $15,000,000
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990'; and
 (2) by striking `after September 30, 1988' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `after September 30, 1990'.
 (b) FISCAL YEAR 1990 FUNDS- (1) With respect to funds appropriated for
 carrying out section 5(i) of the Department of Transportation Act for fiscal
 year 1990, each State must apply for such funds within 60 days after the
 date of enactment of legislation authorizing appropriations for that fiscal
 year. Upon receipt of an application under such subsection, the Secretary
 shall consider the application and notify the State submitting such an
 application as to its approval or disapproval within 60 days. Funds provided
 under this subsection shall remain available to a State for obligation for
 the first 3 months after the end of the fiscal year for which such funds
 have been made available. Any funds which have not been timely applied
 for under this subsection, or which have remained unobligated after the
 expiration of the period described in the previous sentence, shall be made
 available to the Secretary for rail freight assistance projects meeting
 the requirements of this section.
 (2) With respect to funds appropriated for carrying out section 5(h) of
 the Department of Transportation Act for fiscal year 1990, the Secretary
 shall establish such procedures as are necessary to ensure that funds
 available to the Secretary for use for rail service assistance projects
 are distributed by April 1, 1990. If any funds are not distributed by that
 date, the Secretary shall report to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
 the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
 Transportation of the Senate on the status of such funds and the reasons
 for the delay in distribution.
 (3) Section 4021(a)(2) of Public Law 99-509 is repealed.
 (c) LOCAL RAIL FREIGHT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM- Section 5 of the Department of
 Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1654) is amended to read as follows:
`LOCAL RAIL FREIGHT ASSISTANCE
 `SEC. 5. (a) A State is eligible to receive rail freight assistance under
 this section if--
 `(1) such State has established an adequate plan for rail services in such
 State, including a suitable process for updating, revising, and amending
 such plan;
 `(2) such State plan is administered or coordinated by a designated State
 agency and provides for the equitable distribution of resources;
 `(3) such State agency--
 `(A) has authority and administrative jurisdiction to develop, promote,
 supervise, and support safe, adequate, and efficient rail transportation
 services;
 `(B) employs or will employ, directly or indirectly, sufficient trained
 and qualified personnel;
 `(C) maintains or will maintain adequate programs of investigation, research,
 promotion, and development, with provisions for public participation; and
 `(D) is designated and directed solely, or in cooperation with other State
 agencies, to take all practicable steps to improve rail transportation
 safety and to reduce transportation-related energy utilization and pollution;
 `(4) such State provides satisfactory assurance that it has or will adopt
 and maintain adequate procedures for financial control, accounting, and
 performance evaluation in order to assure proper use of Federal funds; and
 `(5) such State complies with regulations of the Secretary issued under
 this section and the Secretary determines that such State meets or exceeds
 the requirements of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this subsection.
 `(b) The Secretary shall, in accordance with this section, provide financial
 assistance to States for rail freight assistance projects that are designed
 to cover--
 `(1) the cost of acquiring, by purchase, lease, or in such other manner
 as the State considers appropriate, a line of railroad or other rail
 properties, or any interest therein, to maintain existing or provide for
 future rail freight service, but only if the Interstate Commerce Commission
 has authorized, or has exempted from the requirements of such authorization,
 the abandonment of, or the discontinuance of rail service on, the line of
 railroad related to the project;
 `(2) the cost of rehabilitating or improving rail properties on a line
 of railroad to the extent necessary to permit adequate and efficient rail
 freight service on such line, but only if the line of railroad related to
 the project is certified by the railroad as having carried 5 million gross
 ton miles of freight or less per mile during the prior year; and
 `(3) the cost of constructing rail or rail related facilities (including
 new connections between two or more existing lines of railroad, intermodal
 freight terminals, sidings, bridges, and relocation of existing lines) for
 the purpose of improving the quality and efficiency of rail freight service,
 but only if the line of railroad related to the project is certified by
 the railroad as having carried 5 million gross ton miles of freight or less
 per mile during the prior year.
 `(c)(1) No project shall be provided rail freight assistance under this
 section unless the line of railroad related to the project is certified
 by the railroad as having carried more than 20 carloads per mile during
 the most recent year of operation of service on such line. In a case where
 the railroad is no longer in existence, the applicant shall provide such
 information in the manner prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary may
 waive the requirement of this paragraph upon a determination that the line
 of railroad is contractually guaranteed at least 40 carloads per mile for
 each of the first 2 years of operation if the proposed project is carried
 out, and the Secretary finds that there is a reasonable expectation that
 such contractual guarantee will be fulfilled.
 `(2) No project shall be provided rail freight assistance under this
 section unless the ratio of benefits to costs for such project, calculated in
 accordance with the methodology established by the Secretary under subsection
 (n), is greater than 1.0.
 `(d) A State shall use assistance provided under subsection (b) of this
 section as follows:
 `(1) The State may grant or loan funds to the owner of rail properties or
 operator of rail service related to the project.
 `(2) The State shall determine all financial terms and conditions of a
 grant or loan, except that the timing of all advances with respect to
 grants under this subsection shall be in accordance with Department of
 Treasury regulations.
 `(3) The State shall place the Federal share of repaid funds in an
 interest-bearing account or, with the approval of the Secretary, permit
 any borrower to place such funds, for the benefit and use of the State,
 in a bank which has been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury in
 accordance with section 10 of the Act of June 11, 1942 (12 U.S.C. 265). The
 State shall use such funds and all accumulated interest to make further
 loans or grants under subsection (b) of this section in the same manner and
 under the same conditions as if they were originally granted to the State by
 the Secretary. The State may, at any time, pay to the Secretary the Federal
 share of any unused funds and accumulated interest. After the termination of
 a State's participation in the rail freight assistance program established
 by this section, such State shall pay the Federal share of any unused funds
 and accumulated interest to the Secretary.
 `(4) The State, to the maximum extent possible, shall encourage the
 participation of shippers, railroads, and local communities in providing
 the State share of rail freight assistance funds.
 `(e) The Federal share of the costs of any rail freight assistance project
 shall be 50 percent, except that in the case of assistance provided under
 subsection (b)(2), the Federal share shall be 70 percent. The State share of
 the costs may be provided in cash or through any of the following benefits,
 to the extent that such benefits would not otherwise be provided:
 `(1) Forgiveness of taxes imposed on a railroad or on its properties.
 `(2) The provision by the State or by any person on behalf of such State,
 for use in its rail freight assistance program, of real property or tangible
 personal property of the kind necessary for the safe and efficient operation
 of rail freight service.
 `(3) Trackage rights secured by the State for a railroad.
 `(4) The cash equivalent of State salaries for State public employees
 working in the State rail freight assistance program, but not including
 overhead and general administrative costs.
A State may provide more than its required percentage share of the cost of
its rail freight assistance program. If a State, or any person on behalf
of a State, provides more than such State's percentage share of the cost
of its rail freight assistance program during any fiscal year, the amount
in excess of such share shall be applied toward such State's share of the
costs of its program for subsequent fiscal years.
 `(f) A State seeking financial assistance for rail freight assistance
 projects described in subsection (b) shall apply, in the form required by
 the Secretary, for such assistance by January 1 of the fiscal year for
 which the funds have been appropriated, except in fiscal years in which
 authorizations of appropriations have not been enacted as of the first day
 of the fiscal year, in which case application must be made within 90 days
 after the date of enactment of legislation authorizing appropriations for
 that fiscal year. In considering applications for rail freight assistance
 projects under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consider the following:
 `(1) The percentage of lines identified to the Interstate Commerce Commission
 by rail carriers for abandonment or potential abandonment within a State.
 `(2) The likelihood of future abandonments within a State.
 `(3) The ratio of benefits to costs for a proposed project calculated in
 accordance with the methodology established by the Secretary under subsection
 (n).
 `(4) The likelihood that the line will continue operating with rail freight
 assistance.
 `(5) The impact of rail bankruptcies, rail restructuring, and rail mergers
 on the State applying for assistance.
 `(g) On the first day of the fiscal year, each State shall be entitled to
 $36,000 of the funds available for expenditure pursuant to subsection (q)
 of this section during the fiscal year to meet the cost of establishing,
 implementing, revising, and updating the State rail plan required by
 subsection (a) of this section, or to carry out projects described in
 subsection (b) (1), (2), or (3), as designated by the State, if such
 projects meet the requirements of subsection (c)(2). Each State must apply
 for such funds on or before the first day of the fiscal year, except in
 fiscal years in which authorizations of appropriations have not been enacted
 as of the first day of the fiscal year, in which case application must be
 made within 60 days after the date of enactment of legislation authorizing
 appropriations for that fiscal year. Upon receipt of an application under
 this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the application and notify
 the State submitting such an application as to its approval or disapproval
 within 60 days. Funds provided under this subsection shall remain available
 to a State for obligation for the first 3 months after the end of the
 fiscal year for which such funds have been made available. Any funds
 which have not been timely applied for under this subsection, or which
 have remained unobligated after the expiration of the period described in
 the previous sentence, shall be made available to the Secretary for rail
 freight assistance projects meeting the requirements of this section.
 `(h) The Secretary shall establish such procedures as are necessary to ensure
 that funds available to the Secretary for use for rail freight assistance
 projects under subsection (b) are distributed by April 1 of the fiscal year
 for which such funds are appropriated. If any funds are not distributed
 by that date, the Secretary shall report to the Committee on Energy and
 Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
 Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the status of such funds and
 the reasons for the delay in distribution.
 `(i) Each State shall retain a contingent interest (redeemable preference
 shares) for the Federal share of funds in any line receiving rail freight
 assistance under this section and may exercise the right to collect its
 share of the funds used for a such a line, if an application for abandonment
 of such line is filed under chapter 109 of title 49, United States Code,
 or if such line is abandoned, discontinued, sold, or disposed of in any
 way after it has received Federal assistance.
 `(j) Two or more States which are eligible to receive rail freight assistance
 under this section may, where not in violation of State law, enter into
 an agreement to combine any portion of such assistance for purposes of
 conducting any project which is eligible for assistance under this section
 and which will benefit each State which is a party to such agreement.
 `(k)(1) Each recipient of funds provided under this section, whether in the
 form of grants, subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other arrangements,
 shall keep such records as the Secretary shall prescribe, including records
 which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of such
 funds, the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which
 such funds were provided or used, the amount of that portion of the cost of
 the project which was supplied by other sources, and such other records as
 will facilitate an effective audit. Such records shall be maintained for
 3 years after the completion of such a project or undertaking.
 `(2) The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States,
 or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for
 the purpose of audit and examination, to any books, documents, papers,
 and records of receipts which, in the opinion of the Secretary or of the
 Comptroller General, may be related or pertinent to the grants, contracts,
 or other arrangements referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 `(3) The Secretary and the Comptroller General shall regularly conduct,
 or cause to be conducted--
 `(A) a financial audit, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
 standards; and
 `(B) a performance audit of the activities and transactions assisted under
 this section, in accordance with generally accepted management principles.
Such audits may be conducted by independent certified or licensed public
accountants and management consultants approved by the Secretary and the
Comptroller General, and they shall be conducted in accordance with such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General.
 `(l) The Interstate Commerce Commission shall provide the Secretary with
 such information as the Secretary requests to assist in administering
 the program authorized by this section. The Commission shall provide the
 requested information within 30 days after receipt of any such request.
 `(m) On or before August 1 of each year, each rail carrier providing
 transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
 Commission under chapter 105 of title 49, United States Code, shall prepare,
 update, and submit to the Secretary a listing of those rail lines of such
 carrier which, based on level of usage, carried 5 million gross ton miles
 of freight or less per mile during the prior year.
 `(n) The Secretary, no later than July 1, 1990, shall establish a methodology
 for calculating the ratio of benefits to costs of projects proposed under
 subsection (b), taking into consideration the need for equitable treatment of
 different regions of the United States and different commodities transported
 by rail. The establishment of such methodology shall be a matter committed
 to the Secretary's discretion.
 `(o) No more than 15 percent of the funds provided under subsection (b)
 in any fiscal year shall be provided to any one State. No more than 20
 percent of the funds provided under subsection (b) in any fiscal year shall
 be provided for any one project.
 `(p) As used in this section, the term `State' means any State in which a
 rail carrier providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the
 Interstate Commerce Commission under chapter 105 of title 49, United States
 Code, maintains any line of railroad.
 `(q) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes
 of this section not to exceed $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1991. Such sums
 as are appropriated are authorized to remain available until expended. No
 funds are authorized to be appropriated under this subsection for any period
 after September 30, 1991.'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (c) shall take effect
 October 1, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate