 
--H.R. 3620--
H.R. 3620
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To clarify the Food Security Act of 1985.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT AFFECTING THE 1989 CROPS.
 Effective only for the 1989 crops, section 1001(5)(D) of the Food Security
 Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(5)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), any person that conducts a farming
 operation to produce a crop subject to limitations under this section as a
 tenant that rents the land for cash (or a crop share guaranteed as to the
 amount of the commodity to be paid in rent) and that makes a significant
 contribution of active personal management but not of personal labor shall
 be considered the same person as the landlord unless the tenant makes a
 significant contribution of equipment used in the farming operation.
 (ii) A tenant that because of any act or failure to act would otherwise be
 considered the same person as the landlord under clause (i) shall not be
 considered the same person as the landlord if the Secretary has at any time
 made a determination, for purposes of this section, regarding the number of
 persons with respect to the tenant's operation on such land for the 1989
 crop year and the landlord did not consent to or knowingly participate in
 such act or failure to act.
 (iii) Any tenant that would be considered to be the same person as the
 landlord but for the operation of clause (ii) shall be eligible to receive
 any payment specified in paragraph (1) or (2) or subtitle D of title XII
 with respect to such land only to the extent that the tenant would be
 eligible for such payments if the tenant were to be considered the same
 person as the landlord under the regulations in place immediately prior to
 the enactment of this subparagraph.'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT AFFECTING THE 1990 CROPS.
 Effective only for the 1990 crops, section 1001(5)(D) of the Food Security
 Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(5)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(D) Any person that conducts a farming operation to produce a crop subject
 to limitations under this section as a tenant that rents the land for cash
 (or a crop share guaranteed as to the amount of the commodity to be paid
 in rent) and that makes a significant contribution of active personal
 management but not of personal labor shall be ineligible to receive any
 payment specified in paragraph (1) or (2) or subtitle D of title XII with
 respect to such land unless the tenant makes a significant contribution of
 equipment used in the farming operation.'.
SEC. 3. EQUITABLE RELIEF.
 Nothing in this Act shall be construed in any way to limit the authority of
 the Secretary of Agriculture to provide equitable relief under any provision
 of law.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.