 
--H.R.5732--
H.R.5732
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To promote and strengthen aviation security, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Aviation Security Improvement
 Act of 1990'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
TITLE I--AVIATION SECURITY
Sec. 101. Director of Intelligence and Security.
Sec. 102. Annual aviation security report; budget.
Sec. 103. Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security.
Sec. 104. Federal Security Managers and Foreign Security Liaison Officers.
Sec. 105. Air carrier and airport security personnel.
Sec. 106. Assessment of threats to domestic airport security.
Sec. 107. Research and development.
Sec. 108. Deployment of explosive detection equipment.
Sec. 109. Threats to civil aviation; public notification.
Sec. 110. Airport construction guidelines.
Sec. 111. Intelligence.
Sec. 112. Screening of mail and cargo.
TITLE II--UNITED STATES RESPONSE TO TERRORISM AFFECTING AMERICANS ABROAD
Sec. 201. International negotiations concerning aviation security.
Sec. 202. Coordinator for counterterrorism.
Sec. 203. Passenger manifest.
Sec. 204. Department of State notification of families of victims.
Sec. 205. Designation of State Department-family liaison and toll-free family
communications system.
Sec. 206. Disaster training for State Department personnel.
Sec. 207. Department of State responsibilities and procedures at international
disaster site.
Sec. 208. Recovery and disposition of remains and personal effects.
Sec. 209. Assessment of Lockerbie experience.
Sec. 210. Official Department of State recognition.
Sec. 211. United States Government compensation for victims of terrorism.
Sec. 212. Overseas security electronic bulletin board.
Sec. 213. Antiterrorism assistance.
Sec. 214. Antiterrorism measures.
Sec. 215. Proposal for consideration by the international civil aviation
organization.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 Congress finds that--
 (1) the safety and security of passengers of United States air carriers
 against terrorist threats should be given the highest priority by the United
 States Government;
 (2) the report of the President's Commission on Aviation Security and
 Terrorism, dated May 15, 1990, found that current aviation security systems
 are inadequate to provide such protection;
 (3) the United States Government should immediately take steps to ensure
 fuller compliance with existing laws and regulations relating to aviation
 security;
 (4) the United States Government should work through the International
 Civil Aviation Organization and directly with foreign governments to enhance
 aviation security of foreign carriers and at foreign airports;
 (5) the United States Government should ensure that enhanced security
 measures are fully implemented by both United States and foreign air carriers;
 (6) all nations belonging to the Summit Seven should promptly amend the
 Bonn Declaration to extend sanctions for all terrorist acts, including
 attacks against airports and air carrier ticket offices;
 (7) the United States Government, in bilateral negotiations with foreign
 governments, should emphasize upgrading international aviation security
 objectives;
 (8) the United States Government should have in place a mechanism by which
 the Government notifies the public, on a case-by-case basis and through the
 application of a uniform national standard, of certain credible threats to
 civil aviation security;
 (9) the United States Government has a special obligation to United States
 victims of acts of terrorism directed against this Nation and should provide
 prompt assistance to the families of such victims and assure that fair and
 prompt compensation is provided to such victims and their families;
 (10) the United States should work with other nations to treat as
 outlaws state sponsors of terrorism, isolating such sponsors politically,
 economically, and militarily;
 (11) the United States must develop a clear understanding that state-sponsored
 terrorism threatens United States values and interests, and that active
 measures are needed to counter more effectively the terrorist threat; and
 (12) the United States must have the national will to take every feasible
 action to prevent, counter, and respond to terrorist activities.
TITLE I--AVIATION SECURITY
SEC. 101. DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION- There is established in the Office of the
 Secretary of Transportation the position of Director of Intelligence and
 Security.
 (b) POWERS AND DUTIES- The Director of Intelligence and Security shall
 report directly to the Secretary of Transportation and shall have the
 following duties and powers:
 (1) Receipt, assessment, and distribution of intelligence information
 relating to long-term transportation security.
 (2) Development of policies, strategies, and plans for dealing with threats
 to transportation security.
 (3) Other planning relating to transportation security, including coordination
 of countermeasures with appropriate Federal agencies.
 (4) Serving as the primary liaison of the Secretary with the intelligence
 and law enforcement communities.
 (5) Such other duties and powers as the Secretary may prescribe as necessary
 to ensure, to the extent possible, the security of the traveling public.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 106(g)(1) of title 49, United States Code,
 is amended by inserting after `312-314,' the following `315-316 (except for
 the duties and powers vested in the Director of Intelligence and Security
 by or under section 101 of the Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990),'.
SEC. 102. ANNUAL AVIATION SECURITY REPORT; BUDGET.
 (a) ANNUAL AVIATION SECURITY REPORT- Section 315 of the Federal Aviation
 Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1356) is amended by redesignating subsection
 (b), and any reference thereto, as subsection (c) and by inserting after
 subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) TRANSPORTATION SECURITY-
 `(1) ANNUAL REPORT- Not later than December 31 of calendar year 1991 and
 of each calendar year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress
 an annual report concerning transportation security, together with such
 recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate. Such report shall
 be prepared in conjunction with the annual report of the Administrator under
 subsection (a) and shall not duplicate the information required by subsection
 (a) or section 1115(c) of this Act. Such annual report may, as necessary,
 be submitted in 2 parts with 1 part being classified in nature and 1 part
 being unclassified.
 `(2) CONTENTS OF REPORT- The annual report required by this subsection
 shall include--
 `(A) a summary of the activities of the Director of Intelligence and Security
 in the 12-month period ending on the date of such report;
 `(B) an assessment of trends and developments in terrorist activities,
 methods, and other threats to transportation;
 `(C) recommendations for research, engineering, and development activities
 relating to transportation security, except research, engineering, and
 development activities relating to aviation security to the extent such
 activities are covered by the research plan required by section 312(d)
 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958;
 `(D) legislative and regulatory recommendations, if appropriate;
 `(E) funding and staffing requirements of the Director of Intelligence
 and Security;
 `(F) an assessment of funding and staffing requirements, and attainment of
 existing staffing goals, for carrying out security functions of the Federal
 Aviation Administration;
 `(G) identification and evaluation of cooperative efforts with other
 Federal agencies;
 `(H) an evaluation of cooperation with foreign transportation and security
 authorities;
 `(I) the status of implementation of the recommendations of the President's
 Commission of Aviation Security and Terrorism and the reasons for any delays
 in implementation of such recommendations; and
 `(J) an evaluation of deployment of explosive detection devices.'.
 (b) PASSENGER SCREENING REPORTS- Section 315(a) of the Federal Aviation
 Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1356(a)) is amended by striking `semiannual'
 each place it appears and inserting `annual'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The portion of the table of contents contained in
 the first section of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 which appears under
 the side heading:
`Sec. 315. Screening of passengers in air transportation.'
is amended by striking `(b)' and inserting `(c)' and by inserting after the
item relating to subsection (a) the following:
`(b) Transportation security.'.
 (2) SECURITY ASSESSMENT REPORTS- Section 1115(c) of such Act (49
 U.S.C. App. 1515(c)) is amended by inserting `(a)' after `section 315'.
 (d) ANNUAL BUDGET SUBMISSION- The annual budget submission for the Department
 of Transportation shall include a specific request for the Office of the
 Director of Intelligence and Security. In determining the budget request for
 the Director, the Secretary shall take into consideration recommendations
 contained in the annual report submitted under section 315(b) of the Federal
 Aviation Act of 1958.
SEC. 103. ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR FOR CIVIL AVIATION SECURITY.
 Title III of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1341-1358)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 318. ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF CIVIL AVIATION SECURITY.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION- There is established the position of
 Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security.
 `(b) AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATOR- The Assistant Administrator shall report
 directly to the Administrator and shall be subject to the Administrator's
 direction and authority.
 `(c) RESPONSIBILITIES- The responsibilities of the Assistant Administrator
 shall include--
 `(1) day-to-day management of and operational guidance to Federal Aviation
 Administration field security resources, including Federal Security Managers;
 `(2) enforcement of security-related requirements;
 `(3) identification of research and development requirements of
 security-related activities;
 `(4) inspections of security systems;
 `(5) reporting to the Director of Intelligence and Security such
 information as may be necessary to permit the Director to fulfill assigned
 responsibilities;
 `(6) assessment of threats to civil aviation; and
 `(7) such other functions as the Administrator considers necessary and
 appropriate.
 `(d) MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN AIR TRANSPORTATION SECURITY- The Assistant
 Administrator shall review and, as necessary, develop measures to strengthen
 air transportation security, including--
 `(1) measures to strengthen controls over checked baggage in air
 transportation, such as measures to ensure baggage reconciliation and
 inspection of items in baggage of passengers which could potentially contain
 explosive devices;
 `(2) measures to strengthen control over individuals with access to aircraft;
 `(3) measures to improve testing of security systems;
 `(4) measures to ensure the use of best available x-ray equipment for air
 transportation security purposes; and
 `(5) measures to strengthen preflight screening of passengers.'.
SEC. 104. FEDERAL SECURITY MANAGERS AND FOREIGN SECURITY LIAISON OFFICERS.
 Title III of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1341-1358)
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 319. FEDERAL SECURITY MANAGERS AND FOREIGN SECURITY LIAISON OFFICERS.
 `(a) FEDERAL SECURITY MANAGERS-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION- Not later than 90 days after the date of the
 enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish the position
 of Federal Security Manager for each airport in the United States at which
 the Administrator determines that such a Manager is necessary to meet the
 needs of air transportation security and shall begin designating persons as
 such Managers and stationing such Managers at such airports. In carrying out
 the requirements of this section, the Administrator may assign the functions
 and responsibilities described in this section to existing Federal Aviation
 Administration field personnel and designate such personnel accordingly.
 `(2) 1-YEAR STATIONING REQUIREMENT- Not later than 1 year after the date
 of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall have stationed
 a Federal Security Manager at each airport in the United States which is
 designated by the Department of Transportation as a category X airport.
 `(3) RESPONSIBILITIES- The responsibilities of a Federal Security Manager
 with respect to an airport shall include the following:
 `(A) Receipt of intelligence information relating to aviation security.
 `(B) Ensuring and assisting in the development of a comprehensive security
 plan for the airport--
 `(i) which establishes responsibilities of each such air carrier and airport
 operator with respect to air transportation security at the airport; and
 `(ii) which includes measures to be taken during periods of normal airport
 operations and during periods when there is a need for additional airport
 security, as determined by the Federal Security Manager, and identifies
 the persons responsible for carrying out such measures.
 `(C) Oversight and enforcement of implementation by air carriers and airport
 operators of Federal security requirements, including the comprehensive
 plan developed pursuant to subparagraph (B).
 `(D) Serving as the on-site coordinator of the response of the Federal
 Aviation Administration to terrorist incidents and threats at the airport.
 `(E) Coordination of day-to-day Federal activities relating to aviation
 security at the airport.
 `(F) Coordination with local law enforcement efforts relating to aviation
 security.
 `(G) Coordination of activities with Federal Security Managers at other
 airports, as appropriate.
 `(4) AUTHORITY OF ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR- A Federal Security Manager
 shall report directly to the office of the Assistant Administrator for
 Civil Aviation Security.
 `(5) NONDUPLICATION OF FUNCTIONS- When a Federal Security Manager is
 designated or stationed at an airport, the Civil Aviation Security Field
 Officer shall not be assigned security responsibilities at such airport.
 `(b) FOREIGN SECURITY LIAISON OFFICERS-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION- Not later than 90 days after the date
 of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish the
 position of Foreign Security Liaison Officer for each airport outside the
 United States at which the Administrator determines that such an Officer
 is necessary for air transportation security and, in coordination with the
 Secretary of State, shall begin assigning such Officers.
 `(2) 2-YEAR REQUIREMENT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the
 enactment of this section, the Administrator, in coordination with the
 Secretary of State, shall assign Foreign Security Liaison Officers for
 airports outside the United States where extraordinary security measures are
 in place. The Secretary of State shall give high priority to the stationing
 of such officers.
 `(3) RESPONSIBILITIES- A Foreign Security Liaison Officer shall be responsible
 (A) for serving as the liaison of the Assistant Administrator for Civil
 Aviation Security with foreign security authorities (including foreign
 governments and airport authorities) with respect to implementation of Federal
 security requirements at the airport, and (B) to the extent practicable,
 for performing the responsibilities set forth in subsection (a)(3).
 `(4) AUTHORITY OF ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR- A Foreign Security Liaison
 Officer shall report directly to the office of the Assistant Administrator
 for Civil Aviation Security.
 `(5) COORDINATION WITH CHIEF OF UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC MISSION- The
 activities of a Foreign Security Liaison Officer shall be coordinated with
 the chief of the United States diplomatic mission to which the Officer is
 assigned. All activities of a Foreign Security Liaison Officer pursuant to
 this subsection shall be consistent with the authorities of the Secretary
 of State and the chief of mission to a foreign country under section 103 of
 the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 and section
 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980.
 `(c) LONG-TERM IMPLEMENTATION PLAN- Not later than 180 days after the date
 of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall submit to Congress
 a plan to fully implement the requirements of this section. Such plan shall
 include a schedule for implementation and an assessment of personnel and
 funding needs.'.
SEC. 105. AIR CARRIER AND AIRPORT SECURITY PERSONNEL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 316 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
 U.S.C. App. 1357) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subsections:
 `(g) AIR CARRIER AND AIRPORT SECURITY PERSONNEL-
 `(1) EMPLOYMENT INVESTIGATIONS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- In order to ensure the security of aircraft and their
 passengers, crew, and cargo, the Administrator shall issue regulations
 to require individuals employed in, and individuals applying for,
 positions described in subparagraph (B) to be subjected to such employment
 investigations, including criminal history record check, as the Administrator
 determines necessary to ensure air transportation security.
 `(B) INDIVIDUALS SUBJECT TO EMPLOYMENT INVESTIGATIONS- An individual shall
 be subject to an employment investigation under subparagraph (A) if such
 individual is employed in, or is applying for, a position in which such
 individual has unescorted access, or may authorize others to have unescorted
 access, to air carrier or foreign air carrier aircraft, or to secured areas
 (designated by the Administrator) of United States airports serving air
 carriers or foreign air carriers.
 `(C) REQUIREMENTS OF AIR CARRIERS AND AIRPORT OPERATORS- Any air carrier,
 foreign air carrier, or airport operator who employs an individual in a
 position described in subparagraph (B), or authorizes or contracts for the
 services of such individual, shall take such actions as may be necessary
 to ensure that any employment investigation required by the Administrator
 under subparagraph (A) is performed.
 `(2) CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECK-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- If, as part of an employment investigation under paragraph
 (1)(A), the Administrator requires an identification and criminal history
 record check of an individual in a position described in paragraph (1)(B) to
 be conducted by the Attorney General, the Administrator (after consultation
 with the Attorney General) shall designate persons to obtain and transmit
 fingerprints to the Attorney General. The costs of any such check shall be
 paid by the employer of such individual. The Attorney General may for the
 purposes of this subsection make available the results of any such check
 to persons designated by the Administrator, after consultation with the
 Attorney General.
 `(B) REGULATIONS- For purposes of administering this subsection, the
 Administrator shall prescribe regulations to--
 `(i) implement procedures for taking fingerprints; and
 `(ii) establish requirements for use of information received from the
 Attorney General under this subsection in order to limit the dissemination
 of such information and ensure that such information is used solely for
 the purposes of this subsection.
 `(C) CORRECTION OF CHECK INFORMATION- An individual who, as part of
 an employment investigation under paragraph (1)(A), is subject to an
 identification and criminal history records check shall be provided a copy
 of any record received from the Attorney General and shall have the right
 to complete and correct the information contained in such check before any
 final employment decision is made on account of such check.
 `(3) EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), an air carrier,
 foreign air carrier, or airport operator shall not employ, or authorize
 or contract for the services of, any individual in a position described in
 paragraph (1)(B), if--
 `(i) such individual has not been subject to an employment investigation
 required under paragraph (1)(A); or
 `(ii) the results of such investigation establish that such individual
 in the 10-year period ending on the date of such investigation has been
 convicted in any jurisdiction of a crime set forth in section 902 (b), (c),
 (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n), (q), or (r); a crime set forth in section
 32 of title 18, United States Code; murder; assault with intent to murder;
 espionage; sedition; treason; rape; kidnapping; unlawful possession, sale,
 distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon; extortion; armed
 robbery; distribution of, or intent to distribute, a controlled substance;
 or conspiracy to commit any of the aforementioned criminal acts.
The Administrator may specify other factors which the Administrator determines
to be sufficient to make an individual ineligible for employment in a position
described in paragraph (1)(B).
 `(B) EXCEPTION- It shall not be a violation of subparagraph (A) for an air
 carrier, foreign air carrier, or airport operator to employ, or authorize or
 contract for employment of, an individual in a position described in paragraph
 (1)(B) who has not been subject to an employment investigation required
 by paragraph (1)(A), if the employment of such individual is carried out
 pursuant to a plan approved by the Administrator which provides alternate
 security arrangements.
 `(4) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this subsection
 shall be construed as requiring investigations or record checks where such
 investigations or record checks are prohibited by applicable laws of a
 foreign government.
 `(5) FEES AND CHARGES- The Administrator and the Attorney General shall
 establish reasonable fees and charges to cover expenses incurred in carrying
 out this subsection. The amount of fees collected under this paragraph
 shall be credited to the accounts in the Treasury from which such expenses
 were incurred and shall be available to the Administrator and the Attorney
 General for paying expenses for which such fees are collected.
 `(h) EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS- Not later than 270 days after the date of the
 enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall prescribe standards
 for the hiring, continued employment, and contracting of air carrier and,
 as appropriate, airport security personnel. Such standards shall include--
 `(1) minimum training requirements for new employees;
 `(2) retraining requirements;
 `(3) minimum staffing levels;
 `(4) minimum language skills; and
 `(5) minimum education levels for employees, as appropriate.
 `(i) HUMAN FACTORS- The Administrator, in coordination with air carriers,
 airport operators, and other interested persons shall review issues
 relating to human performance in the aviation security system with the
 goal of maximizing such performance. Upon completion of the review, the
 Administrator shall recommend guidelines and prescribe appropriate changes
 to existing procedures to improve such performance.
 `(j) TRAINING OF AIR CARRIER AND AIRPORT SECURITY PERSONNEL- Not later
 than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the
 Administrator shall prescribe standards for the education and training of--
 `(1) ground security coordinators;
 `(2) security supervisory personnel; and
 `(3) airline pilots as in-flight security coordinators.
Such standards shall include initial training, retraining, and continuing
education requirements and methods by which the performance of ground security
coordinators and security supervisory personnel shall be measured annually.
 `(k) FOREIGN AIR CARRIER SECURITY PROGRAMS-
 `(1) CONTINUATION OF EXISTING APPROVAL REQUIREMENT- The Administrator
 shall continue in effect the requirement of section 129.25 of title 14,
 Code of Federal Regulations, that foreign air carriers must adopt and use
 a security program approved by the Administrator.
 `(2) LEVEL OF PROTECTION- The Administrator may approve a security program of
 a foreign air carrier under the requirement referred to in paragraph (1) only
 if the Administrator finds that the security program provides passengers of
 the foreign air carrier with a similar level of protection as such passengers
 would receive under the security programs of air carriers serving the same
 airports. The Administrator shall require foreign air carriers to employ
 procedures equivalent to those required of air carriers serving the same
 airport if the Administrator determines that such procedures are necessary
 to afford a similar level of protection as is afforded passengers of the
 air carriers serving the same airport.
 `(3) REVIEW OF EXISTING PROGRAMS- Not later than 1 year after the date of
 the enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall take such action
 as may be necessary to ensure that a security program of a foreign air
 carrier approved by the Administrator before such date of enactment meets
 the requirement of paragraph (2).
 `(4) ANNUAL REPORT- The Administrator shall submit to Congress as part of
 the annual report required by section 315(a) an assessment of the steps
 being taken, and the progress being made, in ensuring that foreign air
 carrier security programs for airports outside the United States--
 `(A) at which the Administrator determines that a Foreign Security Liaison
 Officer is necessary for air transportation security, and
 `(B) for which extraordinary security measures are in place,
are in compliance with this subsection.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The portion of the table of contents contained in
 the first section of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 which appears under
 the side heading:
`Sec. 316. Air transportation security.'
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`(g) Air carrier and airport security personnel.
`(h) Employment standards.
`(i) Human factors.
`(j) Training of air carrier and airport security personnel.
`(k) Foreign air carrier security programs.'.
 (c) REGULATIONS- Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall
 issue regulations implementing subsection (k)(2) of the Federal Aviation
 Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1357), as inserted by subsection (a) of this section.
SEC. 106. ASSESSMENT OF THREATS TO DOMESTIC AIRPORT SECURITY.
 (a) GENERAL ASSESSMENT- The Administrator of the Federal Aviation
 Administration and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall
 jointly conduct an assessment of current and potential threats to the domestic
 air transportation system. Such assessment shall include consideration of
 the extent to which there are individuals with the capability and intent to
 carry out terrorist or related unlawful acts against the domestic aviation
 system and the methods by which such individuals might carry out such acts.
 (b) ANALYSIS AND MONITORING- The Administrator of the Federal Aviation
 Administration and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall
 jointly determine and implement the most effective method for continually
 analyzing and monitoring security threats to the domestic air transportation
 system.
 (c) ASSESSMENTS WITH RESPECT TO INDIVIDUAL AIRPORTS- In coordination with
 the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the Federal
 Aviation Administration shall conduct periodic threat and vulnerability
 assessments with respect to the security of individual airports which are
 part of the domestic air transportation system. Each such assessment shall
 include consideration of--
 (1) the adequacy of security procedures with respect to the handling and
 transport of checked baggage, cargo, and mail;
 (2) space requirements for security personnel and equipment;
 (3) separation of screened and unscreened passengers, baggage, cargo,
 and mail;
 (4) separation of the controlled and uncontrolled areas of airport
 facilities; and
 (5) coordination of the activities of security personnel of the United States
 Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Federal
 Aviation Administration, air carriers, and of other law enforcement personnel.
 (d) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- The Administrator of the Federal Aviation
 Administration shall transmit to Congress for each of calendar years 1991
 and 1992 an annual report on the progress being made and the problems
 occurring in implementation of this section, together with recommendations
 for improving domestic air transportation security.
 (e) REMEDYING SECURITY DEFICIENCIES- The Administrator of the Federal
 Aviation Administration shall take such actions as may be necessary to
 improve domestic air transportation security by remedying any deficiencies
 in such security discovered as a result of the assessments, analyses,
 and monitoring conducted under this section.
 (f) SURVEY- In developing airport construction guidelines under subsection
 (d) of section 612 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as added by section
 110 of this Act, the Administrator shall take into consideration the results
 of the assessment conducted under subsection (a) of this section.
SEC. 107. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 Section 316(d) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1351(d))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(3) PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE RESEARCH-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Administrator shall establish and carry out a program
 to accelerate and expand the research, development, and implementation
 of technologies and procedures to counteract terrorist acts against civil
 aviation.
 `(B) REVIEW OF THREATS- Not later than 180 days after the date of the
 enactment of this paragraph, the Administrator shall complete an intensive
 review of threats to civil aviation, with particular focus on--
 `(i) the explosive materials which present the most significant threat to
 civil aircraft;
 `(ii) the minimum amounts, configurations, and types of explosive material
 which would reasonably be expected to cause catastrophic damage to commercial
 aircraft in service and expected to be in service in the 10-year period
 beginning on such date;
 `(iii) the minimum amounts, configurations, and types of explosive material
 which can cause catastrophic damage to commercial aircraft in service and
 expected to be in service in the 10-year period beginning on such date;
 `(iv) the amounts, configurations, and types of explosive material which
 can reliably be detected by existing, or reasonably anticipated, near-term
 explosive detection technologies;
 `(v) the feasibility of employing various methods to minimize damage caused
 by explosive materials which cannot be reliably detected by existing,
 or reasonably anticipated, near-term explosive detection technologies;
 `(vi) the ability to screen such different entities as passengers, carry-on
 baggage, checked baggage, mail, and cargo; and
 `(vii) the technologies which might be used in the future to attempt to
 destroy or otherwise threaten commercial aircraft and the methods by which
 such technologies can be effectively countered.
 `(C) USE OF RESULTS- The results of such review shall be used by the
 Administrator in developing the focus and priorities of the program
 established under this paragraph.
 `(D) DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION- In designing and implementing the program
 established under this paragraph, the Administrator shall--
 `(i) consult and coordinate with other Federal agencies conducting similar
 research;
 `(ii) identify Federal agencies which would benefit from such research; and
 `(iii) seek cost-sharing agreements with such Federal agencies.
 `(4) PURPOSE- It shall be the purpose of the program established under
 paragraph (3) to develop and have in place not later than 36 months after
 the date of the enactment of this paragraph such new equipment and procedures
 as are needed to meet the technological challenges presented by terrorism.
 `(5) HUMAN FACTORS- The program established under paragraph (3) shall
 include research and development of both technological improvements and
 ways to enhance human performance.
 `(6) GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- Amounts appropriated for each fiscal
 year under paragraph (9) shall be made available by the Administrator, by
 way of grants, to colleges, universities, and other appropriate research
 institutions and facilities with demonstrated ability to conduct research
 described in paragraph (3). Such grants shall be in such amounts, and subject
 to such terms and conditions, as the Administrator may prescribe. The
 Administrator may also enter into such cooperative agreements with such
 governmental entities as the Administrator considers appropriate.
 `(7) REVIEW- In administration of the program established under paragraph
 (3), the Administrator shall review and consider the annual reports of the
 Secretary of Transportation submitted to Congress on transportation security
 and intelligence.
 `(8) SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY PANEL- The Administrator shall establish a scientific
 advisory panel, as a subcommittee of the Research, Engineering and Development
 Advisory Committee, for the purpose of reviewing, commenting on, and advising
 the Administrator on the progress of, and any necessary modifications
 to, the programs established under paragraph (3), including the need for
 long-range research programs to detect and prevent catastrophic damage to
 commercial aircraft by the next generation of terrorist weapons. The panel
 shall consist of individuals with scientific and technical expertise in--
 `(A) the development and testing of effective explosive-detection systems;
 `(B) aircraft structure and experimentation to determine the type and
 minimum weights of explosives which an effective technology must be capable
 of detecting;
 `(C) technologies involved in the minimization of airframe damage to aircraft
 from explosives; and
 `(D) such other scientific and technical areas as are considered appropriate
 by the Administrator.
 `(9) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, after completion of the review
 required by paragraph (3)(B), such sums as may be necessary for the purpose
 of carrying out the grant program established by paragraph (6).'.
SEC. 108. DEPLOYMENT OF EXPLOSIVE DETECTION EQUIPMENT.
 Title III of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1341-1358)
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 320. DEPLOYMENT OF EXPLOSIVE DETECTION EQUIPMENT.
 `(a) GENERAL RULE- No deployment or purchase of any explosive detection
 equipment pursuant to section 108.7(b)(8) and 108.20 of title 14, Code of
 Federal Regulations, or any similar rule, shall be required after the date
 of the enactment of this section, unless the Administrator certifies that,
 based on the results of tests conducted pursuant to protocols developed
 in consultation with expert scientists from outside the Federal Aviation
 Administration, such equipment alone or as part of an integrated system
 can detect under realistic air carrier operating conditions the amounts,
 configurations, and types of explosive material which would be likely to
 be used to cause catastrophic damage to commercial aircraft.
 `(b) DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION OF TESTS- The tests referred to be in subsection
 (a) shall be completed not later than 18 months after the date of the
 enactment of this section.
 `(c) LIMITED AUTHORITY FOR INTERIM DEPLOYMENT- Before completion of the tests
 referred to in subsection (a), but in no event later than 18 months after
 the date of the enactment of this section, the Administrator may require
 the deployment of explosive detection equipment referred to in subsection
 (a) if the Administrator determines that such deployment shall significantly
 enhance aviation security. In making such determination, the Administrator
 shall take into consideration, but not be limited to, such factors as
 the ability of such equipment alone or as part of an integrated system
 to detect under realistic air carrier operating conditions the amounts,
 configurations, and types of explosive material that would likely be used
 to cause catastrophic damage to commercial aircraft. The Administrator
 shall notify the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
 Senate and the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House
 of Representatives of a deployment decision made pursuant to this subsection.
 `(d) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall
 be construed as prohibiting the Administrator from purchasing or deploying
 explosive detection equipment referred to in subsection (a).'.
SEC. 109. THREATS TO CIVIL AVIATION; PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title III of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
 U.S.C. App. 1341-1358) is further amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 321. REPORTING OF THREATS TO CIVIL AVIATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Pursuant to such guidelines as the Secretary of
 Transportation shall establish, an air carrier, airport operator, ticket
 agent, or individual employed by such an entity, receiving information,
 other than through a communication directed by the Federal Government,
 of a threat to civil aviation, shall promptly provide such information to
 the Secretary or the designee of the Secretary.
 `(b) FLIGHT CANCELLATIONS- In the event that a determination is made that a
 particular threat to civil aviation cannot be addressed in a manner adequate
 to ensure, to the extent feasible, the safety of the passengers and crew
 of a particular flight or series of flights, the Administrator shall order
 the cancellation of such flight or series of flights.
 `(c) NOTIFICATION GUIDELINES-
 `(1) PUBLIC NOTIFICATION GUIDELINES- Not later than 180 days after the date
 of the enactment of this section, the President shall develop guidelines
 for ensuring notification to the public of threats to civil aviation in
 appropriate cases.
 `(2) FLIGHT AND CABIN CREW NOTIFICATION GUIDELINES- Not later than 180
 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Administrator
 shall develop guidelines for ensuring notification of the flight and cabin
 crews of an air carrier flight of threats to the security of such flight
 in appropriate cases.
 `(d) RESPONSIBILITIES- The guidelines developed under subsection (c)(1)
 shall identify officials responsible for--
 `(1) determining, on a case-by-case basis, if public notification of a
 threat is in the best interest of the United States and the traveling public;
 `(2) ensuring that public notification, when considered appropriate, is
 made in a timely and effective manner, including the use of a toll-free
 telephone number; and
 `(3) canceling the departure of a flight or series of flights under subsection
 (b).
 `(e) CRITERIA- The guidelines developed pursuant to subsection (c)(1)
 shall provide for the consideration of--
 `(1) the specificity of the threat;
 `(2) the credibility of intelligence information related to the threat;
 `(3) the ability to effectively counter the threat;
 `(4) the protection of intelligence information sources and methods;
 `(5) cancellation, by an air carrier or the Administrator, of a flight or
 series of flights instead of public notification;
 `(6) the ability of passengers and crew to take steps to reduce the risk
 to their safety as a result of any notification; and
 `(7) such other factors as the Administrator considers appropriate.
 `(f) SELECTIVE NOTIFICATION PROHIBITED- In no event shall there be
 notification of a threat to civil aviation to only selective potential
 travelers unless such threat applies only to them.
 `(g) DISTRIBUTION- The guidelines developed pursuant to subsection (c)
 shall be distributed for use by appropriate officials of the Department
 of Transportation, the Department of State, the Department of Justice,
 and air carriers.
 `(h) ACCESS TO INFORMATION- The Administrator, in cooperation with agencies
 involved in the collection, receipt, and analysis of intelligence information
 relating to aviation security, shall develop procedures to minimize the
 number of individuals having access to threat information. Any restrictions
 adopted pursuant to this subsection shall not diminish the ability of the
 Federal Government to effectively discharge its responsibilities relating
 to aviation security, including notification of the public and flight and
 cabin crews under subsection (c).'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The portion of the table
 of contents contained in the first section of the Federal Aviation Act of
 1958 relating to title III of such Act is amended by inserting after the
 item relating to section 317 the following new items:
`Sec. 318. Assistant Administrator of Civil Aviation Security.
`(a) Establishment of position.
`(b) Authority of Administrator.
`(c) Responsibilities.
`(d) Measures to strengthen air transportation security.
`Sec. 319. Federal Security Managers and Foreign Security Liaison Officers.
`(a) Federal Security Managers.
`(b) Foreign Security Liaison Officers.
`(c) Long-term implementation plan.
`Sec. 320. Deployment of explosive detection equipment.
`Sec. 321. Reporting of threats to civil aviation.
`(a) In general.
`(b) Flight cancellations.
`(c) Notification guidelines.
`(d) Responsibilities.
`(e) Criteria.
`(f) Selective notification prohibited.
`(g) Distribution.
`(h) Access to information.'.
SEC. 110. AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 612 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
 U.S.C. App. 1432) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subsection:
 `(d) AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES- The Administrator, in consultation
 with airport authorities, air carriers, and such others as the Administrator
 considers appropriate, shall develop guidelines for airport design and
 construction to allow for maximum security enhancement.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The portion of the table of
 contents contained in the first section of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958
 which appears under the side heading:
`Sec. 612. Airport operating certificates.'
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`(d) Airport construction guidelines.'.
SEC. 111. INTELLIGENCE.
 (a) INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM REPORTING- Not later than 180 days after
 the date of the enactment of this Act, the heads of the agencies of the
 intelligence community shall promulgate policies and procedures to ensure
 that intelligence reports concerning international terrorism are made
 available, as appropriate, to other members of the intelligence community,
 the Department of Transportation, and the Federal Aviation Administration.
 (b) STRATEGIC PLANNING- The intelligence community shall consider placing
 greater emphasis on strategic intelligence efforts through the establishment
 of a unit for strategic planning concerning terrorism.
 (c) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY LIAISON- At the request of the Secretary
 of Transportation, the Director of Central Intelligence shall designate
 not less than one intelligence officer of the Central Intelligence Agency
 to serve in a senior staff position in the Office of the Secretary of the
 Department of Transportation.
 (d) REVIEW OF MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING- Not later than 180 days
 after the date of the enactment of this Act, the intelligence community,
 the Department of Transportation, and the Federal Aviation Administration
 shall conduct a review of and, as appropriate, revise all memorandums of
 understanding and other written working agreements between the intelligence
 community and the Federal Aviation Administration.
 (e) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY- For purposes of this section, the term
 `intelligence community' means the intelligence and intelligence-related
 activities of the following agencies of the United States Government:
 (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
 (2) The Department of Defense.
 (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
 (4) The National Security Agency.
 (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department
 of the Air Force.
 (6) The Department of State.
 (7) The Department of the Treasury.
 (8) The Department of Energy.
 (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 (10) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
SEC. 112. SCREENING OF MAIL AND CARGO.
 (a) STUDY- The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall
 conduct a study to determine whether additional requirements should be
 imposed to enhance the security requirements for the transportation of mail
 and cargo by passenger aircraft.
 (b) FACTORS- In conducting the study under this section, the Administrator
 shall consider, among other things--
 (1) the extent to which it is practicable to require for mail and cargo
 the same screening procedures as are required for checked baggage;
 (2) constitutional limitations on the authority of the United States
 Government to screen mail;
 (3) existing and reasonably anticipated explosive detection technologies
 capable of screening mail and cargo;
 (4) the variation in threat presented by mail and cargo from various
 locations;
 (5) the use of inspection procedures specific to mail and cargo;
 (6) the protection, to the extent possible, of the privacy of the senders
 and recipients of mail;
 (7) precise detection of explosive materials which can cause catastrophic
 damage to commercial aircraft; and
 (8) the desirability of not unduly delaying the delivery of mail and cargo.
 (c) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT- In conducting the study under this section,
 the Administrator shall consult with the Postmaster General, the Secretary
 of Defense, and other interested persons.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this
 Act, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report on the results
 of the study conducted under this section, together with such legislative
 and administrative recommendations as the Administrator considers appropriate.
TITLE II--UNITED STATES RESPONSE TO TERRORISM AFFECTING AMERICANS ABROAD
SEC. 201. INTERNATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS CONCERNING AVIATION SECURITY.
 (a) UNITED STATES POLICY- It is the policy of the United States--
 (1) to seek bilateral agreements to achieve United States aviation security
 objectives with foreign governments;
 (2) to continue to press vigorously for security improvements through the
 Foreign Airport Security Act and the foreign airport assessment program; and
 (3) to continue to work through the International Civil Aviation Organization
 to improve aviation security internationally.
 (b) NEGOTIATIONS FOR AVIATION SECURITY- (1) The Department of State, in
 consultation with the Department of Transportation, shall be responsible for
 negotiating requisite aviation security agreements with foreign governments
 concerning the implementation of United States rules and regulations which
 affect the foreign operations of United States air carriers, foreign air
 carriers, and foreign international airports. The Secretary of State is
 directed to enter, expeditiously, into negotiations for bilateral and
 multilateral agreements--
 (A) for enhanced aviation security objectives;
 (B) to implement the Foreign Airport Security Act and the foreign airport
 assessment program to the fullest extent practicable; and
 (C) to achieve improved availability of passenger manifest information.
 (2) A principal objective of bilateral and multilateral negotiations with
 foreign governments and the International Civil Aviation Organization shall
 be improved availability of passenger manifest information.
SEC. 202. COORDINATOR FOR COUNTERTERRORISM.
 The Coordinator for Counterterrorism shall be responsible for the coordination
 of international aviation security for the Department of State.
SEC. 203. PASSENGER MANIFEST.
 (a) MANDATORY AVAILABILITY OF PASSENGER MANIFEST- Section 410 of the Federal
 Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1380) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 410. PASSENGER MANIFEST.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT- Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment
 of this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall require all United
 States air carriers to provide a passenger manifest for any flight to
 appropriate representatives of the United States Department of State--
 `(1) not later than 1 hour after any such carrier is notified of an aviation
 disaster outside the United States which involves such flight; or
 `(2) if it is not technologically feasible or reasonable to fulfill the
 requirement of this subsection within 1 hour, then as expeditiously as
 possible, but not later than 3 hours after such notification.
 `(b) CONTENTS- For purposes of this section, a passenger manifest should
 include the following information:
 `(1) The full name of each passenger.
 `(2) The passport number of each passenger, if required for travel.
 `(3) The name and telephone number of a contact for each passenger.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- In implementing the requirement pursuant to the amendment
 made by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of Transportation
 shall consider the necessity and feasibility of requiring United States
 carriers to collect passenger manifest information as a condition for
 passenger boarding of any flight subject to such requirement.
 (c) FOREIGN AIR CARRIERS- The Secretary of Transportation shall consider
 a requirement for foreign air carriers comparable to that imposed pursuant
 to the amendment made by subsection (a).
 (d) INFORMATION FROM UNITED STATES PASSPORTS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, to the extent provided in appropriation Acts, for each
 fiscal year not more than $5,000,000 in passport fees collected by the
 Department of State may be credited to a Department of State account. Amounts
 credited to such account shall be available only for the costs associated
 with the acquisition and production of machine-readable United States
 passports and visas and compatible reading equipment. Amounts credited to
 such account are authorized to remain available until expended.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents contained
 in the first section of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 is amended by
 striking the item relating to section 410 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 410. Passenger manifest.'.
SEC. 204. DEPARTMENT OF STATE NOTIFICATION OF FAMILIES OF VICTIMS.
 (a) DEPARTMENT OF STATE POLICY- It is the policy of the Department of State
 pursuant to section 43 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act to
 directly and promptly notify the families of victims of aviation disasters
 abroad concerning citizens of the United States directly affected by such
 a disaster, including timely written notice. The Secretary of State shall
 ensure that such notification by the Department of State is carried out
 notwithstanding notification by any other person.
 (b) DEPARTMENT OF STATE GUIDELINES- Not later than 60 days after the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall issue such
 regulations, guidelines, and circulars as are necessary to ensure that the
 policy under subsection (a) is fully implemented.
SEC. 205. DESIGNATION OF STATE DEPARTMENT-FAMILY LIAISON AND TOLL-FREE FAMILY
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
 (a) DESIGNATION OF STATE DEPARTMENT-FAMILY LIAISON- Not later than 60 days
 after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall
 issue such rules and guidelines as are necessary to provide that in the event
 of an aviation disaster directly involving United States citizens abroad,
 if possible, the Department of State will assign a specific individual,
 and an alternate, as the Department of State liaison for the family of each
 such citizen.
 (b) TOLL-FREE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM- In the establishment of the Department
 of State toll-free communications system to facilitate inquiries concerning
 the affect of any disaster abroad on United States citizens residing or
 traveling abroad, the Secretary of State shall ensure that a toll-free
 telephone number is reserved for the exclusive use of the families of citizens
 who have been determined to be directly involved in any such disaster.
SEC. 206. DISASTER TRAINING FOR STATE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
 (a) ADDITIONAL TRAINING- The Secretary of State shall institute a supplemental
 program of training in disaster management for all consular officers.
 (b) TRAINING IMPROVEMENTS-
 (1) In expanding the training program under subsection (a), the Secretary
 of State shall consult with death and bereavement counselors concerning
 the particular demands posed by aviation tragedies and terrorist activities.
 (2) In providing such additional training under subsection (a) the Secretary
 of State shall consider supplementing the current training program through--
 (A) providing specialized training to create a team of `disaster specialists'
 to deploy immediately in a crisis; or
 (B) securing outside experts to be brought in during the initial phases to
 assist consular personnel.
SEC. 207. DEPARTMENT OF STATE RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES AT INTERNATIONAL
DISASTER SITE.
 (a) DISPATCH OF SENIOR STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL TO SITE- Not later than 60
 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State
 shall issue such rules and guidelines as are necessary to provide that in
 the event of an international disaster, particularly an aviation tragedy,
 directly involving significant numbers of United States citizens abroad
 not less than one senior officer from the Bureau of Consular Affairs of
 the Department of State shall be dispatched to the site of such disaster.
 (b) CRITERIA FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE STAFFING AT DISASTER SITE- Not later
 than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 of State shall promulgate criteria for Department of State staffing of
 disaster sites abroad. Such criteria shall define responsibility for staffing
 decisions and shall consider the deployment of crisis teams under subsection
 (d). The Secretary of State shall promptly issue such rules and guidelines
 as are necessary to implement criteria developed pursuant to this subsection.
 (c) STATE DEPARTMENT OMBUDSMAN- Not later than 60 days after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall issue such rules and
 guidelines as are necessary to provide that in the event of an international
 aviation disaster involving significant numbers of United States citizens
 abroad not less than one officer or employee of the Department of State shall
 be dispatched to the disaster site to provide on-site assistance to families
 who may visit the site and to act as an ombudsman in matters involving the
 foreign local government authorities and social service agencies.
 (d) CRISIS TEAMS- Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary of State shall promulgate procedures for
 the deployment of a `crisis team', which may include public affairs,
 forensic, and bereavement experts, to the site of any international disaster
 involving United States citizens abroad to augment in-country Embassy and
 consulate staff. The Secretary of State shall promptly issue such rules and
 guidelines as are necessary to implement procedures developed pursuant to
 this subsection.
SEC. 208. RECOVERY AND DISPOSITION OF REMAINS AND PERSONAL EFFECTS.
 It is the policy of the Department of State (pursuant to section 43 of the
 State Department Basic Authorities Act) to provide liaison with foreign
 governments and persons and with United States air carriers concerning
 arrangements for the preparation and transport to the United States of the
 remains of citizens who die abroad, as well as the disposition of personal
 effects. The Secretary of State shall ensure that regulations and guidelines
 of the Department of State reflect such policy and that such assistance
 is rendered to the families of United States citizens who are killed in
 terrorist incidents and disasters abroad.
SEC. 209. ASSESSMENT OF LOCKERBIE EXPERIENCE.
 (a) ASSESSMENT- The Secretary of State shall compile an assessment of the
 Department of State response to the Pan American Airways Flight 103 aviation
 disaster over Lockerbie, Scotland, on December 21, 1988.
 (b) GUIDELINES- The Secretary of State shall establish, based on the
 assessment compiled under subsection (a) and other relevant factors,
 guidelines for future Department of State responses to comparable disasters
 and shall distribute such guidelines to all United States diplomatic and
 consular posts abroad.
SEC. 210. OFFICIAL DEPARTMENT OF STATE RECOGNITION.
 Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of State shall promulgate guidelines for appropriate ceremonies
 or other official expressions of respect and support for the families of
 United States citizens who are killed through acts of terrorism abroad.
SEC. 211. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT COMPENSATION FOR VICTIMS OF TERRORISM.
 (a) COMPENSATION- The President shall submit to the Congress, not later
 than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, recommendations
 on whether or not legislation should be enacted to authorize the United
 States to provide monetary and tax relief as compensation to United States
 citizens who are victims of terrorism.
 (b) BOARD- The President may establish a board to develop criteria for
 compensation and to recommend changes to existing laws to establish a single
 comprehensive approach to victim compensation for terrorist acts.
 (c) INCOME TAX BENEFIT FOR VICTIMS OF LOCKERBIE TERRORISM-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), in the case of any individual
 whose death was a direct result of the Pan American Airways Flight 103
 terrorist disaster over Lockerbie, Scotland, on December 21, 1988, any tax
 imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall not apply--
 (A) with respect to the taxable year which includes December 21, 1988, and
 (B) with respect to the prior taxable year.
 (2) LIMITATION- In no case may the tax benefit pursuant to paragraph (1) for
 any taxable year, for any individual, exceed an amount equal to 28 percent
 of the annual rate of basic pay at Level V of the Executive Schedule of
 the United States as of December 21, 1988.
SEC. 212. OVERSEAS SECURITY ELECTRONIC BULLETIN BOARD.
 Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary of State shall issue such rules and regulations as may be
 necessary to establish, under the Bureau of Consular Affairs, an electronic
 bulletin board accessible to the general public. Such bulletin board shall
 contain all information, updated daily, which is available on the Overseas
 Security Electronic Bulletin Board of the Bureau of Diplomatic Security.
SEC. 213. ANTITERRORISM ASSISTANCE.
 (a) AVIATION SECURITY- In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be
 appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated $7,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991 for aviation security assistance under chapter 8 of part II of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2349aa et seq.), relating to
 antiterrorism assistance.
 (b) TRAINING SERVICES- Section 573 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2349aa2) is amended in subsection (d) by striking out paragraphs
 (1), (2), and (3) and inserting in lieu thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(1) Training services (including short term refresher training) provided
 pursuant to this chapter may be conducted outside the United States only if--
 `(A) the training to be conducted outside the United States will be provided
 during a period of not more than 30 days;
 `(B) such training relates to--
 `(i) aviation security;
 `(ii) crisis management;
 `(iii) document screening techniques;
 `(iv) facility security;
 `(v) maritime security;
 `(vi) VIP protection; or
 `(vii) the handling of detector dogs, except that only short term refresher
 training may be provided under this clause; and
 `(C) at least 15 days before such training is to begin, the Committee on
 Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign
 Relations of the Senate are notified in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications.
 `(2) Personnel of the United States Government authorized to advise
 eligible foreign countries on antiterrorism matters shall carry out
 their responsibilities, to the maximum extent possible, within the United
 States. Such personnel may provide advice outside the United States on
 antiterrorism matters to eligible foreign countries for periods not to
 exceed 30 consecutive calendar days.
 `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), employees of the Department
 of State shall not engage in the training of law enforcement personnel or
 the provision of services under this chapter.
 `(B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply to training (including short term
 refresher training) or services provided to law enforcement personnel
 by employees of the Bureau of Diplomatic Security with regard to crisis
 management, facility security, or VIP protection.'.
SEC. 214. ANTITERRORISM MEASURES.
 (a) GUIDELINES FOR INTERNATIONAL AVIATION TRAVELERS- For the purpose
 of notifying the public, the Secretary of State, in consultation with
 the Secretary of Transportation, shall develop and publish guidelines
 for thwarting efforts by international terrorists to enlist the
 unwitting assistance of international aviation travelers in terrorist
 activities. Notices concerning such guidelines shall be posted and prominently
 displayed domestically and abroad in international airports.
 (b) DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS- The Secretary of State and the
 Secretary of Transportation in all appropriate fora, particularly talks
 and meetings related to international civil aviation, shall enter into
 negotiations with other nations for the establishment of international
 standards regarding guidelines for thwarting efforts by international
 terrorists to enlist the unwitting assistance of international aviation
 travelers in terrorist activities.
 (c) PUBLICATION OF REWARDS FOR TERRORISM-RELATED INFORMATION- For the
 purpose of notifying the public, the Secretary of State shall publish
 the availability of United States Government rewards for information on
 international terrorist-related activities, including rewards available
 under section 36(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
 U.S.C. 2708(a)) and chapter 204 of title 18, United States Code. To the extent
 appropriate and feasible, notices making such publication shall be posted
 and prominently displayed domestically and abroad in international airports.
 (d) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of
 Transportation should take appropriate measures to utilize and train properly
 the officers and employees of other United States Government agencies who
 have functions at international airports in the United States and abroad
 in the detection of explosives and firearms which could be a threat to
 international civil aviation.
SEC. 215. PROPOSAL FOR CONSIDERATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION
ORGANIZATION.
 Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation,
 shall propose to the International Civil Aviation Organization the
 establishment of a comprehensive aviation security program which shall
 include (1) training for airport security personnel, (2) grants for
 security equipment acquisition for certain nations, and (3) expansion of
 the appropriate utilization of canine teams in the detection of explosive
 devices in all airport areas, including use in passenger screening areas
 and nonpublic baggage assembly and processing areas.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.