 
--H.R.1529--
H.R.1529
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide for the establishment of the Ulysses S. Grant National Historic Site
in the State of Missouri, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ULYSSES S. GRANT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
 In order to preserve and interpret for the benefit and inspiration of
 all Americans a key property associated with the life of General and
 later President Ulysses S. Grant and the life of First Lady Julia Dent
 Grant, knowledge of which is essential to understanding, in the context of
 mid-nineteenth century American history, his rise to greatness, his heroic
 deeds and public service, and her partnership in them, there is hereby
 established the Ulysses S. Grant National Historic Site near St. Louis,
 Missouri.
SEC. 2. PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
 (a) WHITE HAVEN PROPERTY- The Secretary of the Interior is authorized
 to acquire by donation the property and improvements thereon known as
 White Haven in the unincorporated portion of St. Louis County adjacent to
 Grantwood Village within the area generally depicted on the map entitled
 `Boundary Map, White Haven National Historic Site', numbered WHHA-80,000
 and dated July 1988. The map shall be on file and available for public
 inspection in the offices of the Director of the National Park Service,
 Department of the Interior.
 (b) PERSONAL PROPERTY- The Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation
 or purchase with donated or appropriated funds personal property directly
 associated with White Haven or President or Mrs. Grant for the purposes of
 the national historic site referred to in section 1.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION.
 The property acquired pursuant to section 1 of this Act shall be administered
 by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with provisions of law
 generally applicable to units of the National Park
System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), and the Act of
August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666). The Secretary is authorized to enter into
cooperative agreements with adjacent landowners for the provision of such
parking and safe access to the property as may be necessary for public use.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.y Julia Dent Grant, knowledge of which is essential
to understanding, in the context of mid-nineteenth century American history,
his rise to gr