 
--H.R.4793--
H.R.4793
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment Act of 1958,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Small Business Administration Reauthorization
 and Amendments Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
Sec. 101. Authorizations.
Sec. 102. Disaster salaries and expenses.
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE SMALL BUSINESS ACT AND RELATED ACTS
Part A--Small Business Act
Sec. 201. Small business development centers.
Sec. 202. Export revolving line of credit.
Sec. 203. Two-year rule for eligibility in the minority small business and
capital ownership development program.
Sec. 204. Size determinations relating to tribally owned business concerns.
Sec. 205. Joint ventures with tribally owned participants in the 8(a) program.
Sec. 206. Surety bond waiver authority.
Sec. 207. Establishing award eligibility for contract opportunities competed
under section 8(a).
Sec. 208. Bundling of contracts.
Sec. 209. Designated procurement center representatives.
Sec. 210. Nonmanufacturer rule.
Sec. 211. Commission on Minority Business Development.
Sec. 212. Sunset on authority to provide technical and managerial assistance
through private sector sources.
Part B--Small Business Investment Act
Sec. 214. Development company financings.
Sec. 215. Small business investment companies.
Sec. 216. Pilot Preferred Surety Bond Guarantee Program.
Part C--Small Business Administration Management
Sec. 221. Regulations.
Sec. 222. Small Business Administration Deputy Administrator.
Part D--Demonstration Programs and Studies
Sec. 231. Small Business Technology Transfer Demonstration Program.
Sec. 232. Pilot Technology Access Program.
Sec. 233. Feasibility study of business cooperation network.
Sec. 234. Study on impact of electronic data interchange technology.
Part E--Repealers and Technical Amendments
Sec. 241. Department of Defense procurement reporting.
Sec. 242. Expired provision.
Sec. 243. Reporting of subcontracting activity.
Sec. 244. Notices of proposed procurement opportunities.
Sec. 245. Time limit on secondary market sales.
TITLE III--ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Establishment of Office of Rural Affairs.
Sec. 303. SBDC rural activities.
Sec. 304. Catalog of programs to assist rural small business concerns.
Sec. 305. Area statistics in Presidential report.
Sec. 306. Rural small business conferences.
Sec. 307. Pilot rural development loan program.
Sec. 308. Rural small business incubators.
Sec. 309. Effects of deregulation on rural America.
Sec. 310. Tourism demonstration program.
Sec. 311. Rural tourism training program.
TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS
Sec. 401. Contract goals for minorities in printing related services.
Sec. 402. Suspension of liquidated damages under comprehensive small business
subcontracting plans.
Sec. 403. Definition of architectural and engineering services.
TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (b) through (g),
 (2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (b), and
 (3) by adding after subsection (b), as redesignated, the following new
 subsections:
 `(c) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1991:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $72,000,000 in direct and immediate participation loans; and of such
 sum the Administration is authorized to make $19,000,000 in loans as provided
 in section 7(a)(10), $24,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(11),
 $10,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(20), and $19,000,000 in
 loans to disabled veterans and Vietnam era veterans (as defined in section
 1841, title 38, United States Code) under the general terms and conditions
 of section 7(a) of this Act.
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $4,070,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other financings;
 and of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make $3,500,000,000 in
 general business loans as provided in section 7(a), $50,000,000 in loans as
 provided in section 7(a)(12)(B), and $520,000,000 in financings as provided in
 section 7(a)(13) and section 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
 `(3) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $19,000,000
 in purchases of preferred stock and $200,000,000 in guarantees of debentures.
 `(4) For the programs authorized by part B of title IV of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to enter into
 guarantees not to exceed $1,800,000,000.
 `(d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1991 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
 this Act, including administrative expenses and necessary loan capital for
 disaster loans pursuant to section 7(b), and to carry out the provisions of
 the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, including salaries and expenses
 of the Administration.
 `(e) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1992:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $75,000,000 in direct and immediate participation loans; and of such
 sum the Administration is authorized to make $20,000,000 in loans as provided
 in section 7(a)(10), $25,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(11),
 $10,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(20), and $20,000,000 in
 loans to disabled veterans and Vietnam era veterans (as defined in section
 1841, title 38, United States Code) under the general terms and conditions
 of section 7(a) of this Act.
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $4,449,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other financings;
 and of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make $3,850,000,000 in
 general business loans as provided in section 7(a), $53,000,000 in loans as
 provided in section 7(a)(12)(B), and $546,000,000 in financings as provided in
 section 7(a)(13) and section 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
 `(3) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $20,000,000
 in purchases of preferred stock and $210,000,000 in guarantees of debentures.
 `(4) For the programs authorized by part B of title IV of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to enter into
 guarantees not to exceed $1,890,000,000.
 `(f) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1992 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
 this Act, including administrative expenses and necessary loan capital for
 disaster loans pursuant to section 7(b), and to carry out the provisions of
 the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, including salaries and expenses
 of the Administration.
 `(g) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1993:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $79,000,000 in direct and immediate participation loans; and of such
 sum the Administration is authorized to make $21,000,000 in loans as provided
 in section 7(a)(10), $26,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(11),
 $11,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(20), and $21,000,000 in
 loans to disabled veterans and Vietnam era veterans (as defined in section
 1841, title 38, United States Code) under the general terms and conditions
 of section 7(a) of this Act.
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $4,671,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other financings;
 and of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make $4,043,000,000 in
 general business loans as provided in section 7(a), $55,000,000 in loans as
 provided in section 7(a)(12)(B), and $573,000,000 in financings as provided in
 section 7(a)(13) and section 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
 `(3) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $21,000,000
 in purchases of preferred stock and $221,000,000 in guarantees of debentures.
 `(4) For the programs authorized by part B of title IV of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to enter into
 guarantees not to exceed $1,985,000,000.
 `(h) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1993 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
 this Act, including administrative expenses and necessary loan capital for
 disaster loans pursuant to section 7(b), and to carry out the provisions of
 the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, including salaries and expenses
 of the Administration.
 `(i) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1994:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $83,000,000 in direct and immediate participation loans; and of such
 sum the Administration is authorized to make $22,000,000 in loans as provided
 in section 7(a)(10), $27,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(11),
 $12,000,000 in loans as provided in section 7(a)(20), and $22,000,000 in
 loans to disabled veterans and Vietnam era veterans (as defined in section
 1841, title 38, United States Code) under the general terms and conditions
 of section 7(a) of this Act.
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is authorized
 to make $4,905,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other financings;
 and of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make $4,245,000,000 in
 general business loans as provided in section 7(a), $58,000,000 in loans as
 provided in section 7(a)(12)(B), and $602,000,000 in financings as provided in
 section 7(a)(13) and section 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
 `(3) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $22,000,000
 in purchases of preferred stock and $232,000,000 in guarantees of debentures.
 `(4) For the programs authorized by part B of title IV of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to enter into
 guarantees not to exceed $2,084,000,000.
 `(j) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1994 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
 this Act, including administrative expenses and necessary loan capital for
 disaster loans pursuant to section 7(b), and to carry out the provisions of
 the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, including salaries and expenses
 of the Administration.'.
SEC. 102. DISASTER SALARIES AND EXPENSES.
 Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended by
 adding at the end of subsection (a) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) There are authorized to be transferred from the disaster loan revolving
 fund such sums as may be necessary and appropriate for administrative
 expenses of the Administration.'.
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE SMALL BUSINESS ACT AND RELATED ACTS
PART A--SMALL BUSINESS ACT
SEC. 201. SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.
 (a) FUNDING FORMULAS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) is
 amended by striking the second proviso in subsection (a)(4) and inserting
 the following: `Provided further, That no recipient of funds under this
 section shall receive a grant which would exceed its pro rata share of a
 $70,000,000 program based upon the population to be served by the Small
 Business Development Center as compared to the total population of the
 United States, plus $100,000 for each State, but no State shall receive
 less than $200,000.';
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply to
 contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements for performance commencing on
 or after October 1, 1991. Contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements the
 performance of which commences before October 1, 1991, shall receive funding
 for the entire term of performance without regard to the amendment made by
 paragraph (1) and according to the State's pro rata share of a $65,000,000
 program as computed on the effective date of this section under population
 estimates used for calendar year 1990 agreements, plus $50,000 for each
 State, but no State shall receive less than $200,000.
 (b) SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER ACT- Section 204 of the Small Business
 Development Center Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-302) is hereby repealed.
SEC. 202. EXPORT REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT.
 Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `for pre-export' in paragraph (14)(A), and
 (2) by striking `18 months' and inserting `3 years' in paragraph (14)(A).
SEC. 203. TWO-YEAR RULE FOR ELIGIBILITY IN THE MINORITY SMALL BUSINESS AND
CAPITAL OWNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Small Business Administration may prescribe a minimum
 period of time during which a prospective Program Participant must be in
 operation in order to meet the eligibility requirements of section 8(a)(7)(A)
 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(7)(A)), only if the Administration
 provides a waiver of such minimum period as set forth in subsection (b).
 (b) WAIVER OF MINIMUM PERIOD OF OPERATION- (1) The Administration shall
 provide that any requirement it establishes regarding the period of time
 a prospective Program Participant must be in operation may be waived and,
 a prospective Program Participant, who otherwise meets the requirements of
 section 8(a)(7)(A) of the Small Business Act, shall be considered to have
 demonstrated reasonable prospects for success, if--
 (A) the individual or individuals upon whom eligibility is to be based have
 substantial and demonstrated business management experience;
 (B) the prospective Program Participant has demonstrated technical expertise
 to carry out its business plan with a substantial likelihood for success;
 (C) the prospective Program Participant has adequate capital to carry out
 its business plan;
 (D) the prospective Program Participant has a record of successful performance
 on contracts from governmental and nongovernmental sources in the primary
 industry category in which the prospective Program Participant is seeking
 Program certification; and
 (E) the prospective Program Participant has, or can demonstrate its ability
 to timely obtain, the personnel, facilities, equipment, and any other
 requirements needed to perform such contracts.
 (2) The authority to make the determination that a prospective Program
 Participant has demonstrated its potential for success by meeting the
 criteria specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be made by
 the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, or a designee of
 such officer.
SEC. 204. SIZE DETERMINATIONS RELATING TO TRIBALLY OWNED BUSINESS CONCERNS.
 (a) AFFILIATION RULES- Section 7(j)(10)(J)(ii) of the Small Business Act
 (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)(J)(ii)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(ii)(I) Except as authorized by subclauses (II) or (III), no award shall
 be made pursuant to section 8(a) to a concern other than a small business
 concern.
 `(II) In determining the size of a small business concern owned by a
 socially and economically disadvantaged Indian tribe (or a wholly owned
 business entity of such tribe), each firm's size shall be independently
 determined without regard to its affiliation with the tribe, any entity of
 the tribal government, or any other business enterprise owned by the tribe,
 unless the Administrator determines that one or more such tribally owned
 business concerns have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial
 unfair competitive advantage within an industry category.
 `(III) Any joint venture established under the authority of section 602(b)
 of Public Law 100-656, the `Business Opportunity Development Reform Act of
 1988', shall be eligible for award of a contract pursuant to section 8(a).'.
 (b) TRIBAL HOLDING COMPANIES- Section 8(a)(4) of the Small Business Act
 (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(4)) is amended by inserting--
 (1) in clause (A)(i)(II), after the word `tribe' the parenthetical phrase
 `(or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe)'; and
 (2) in clause (A)(ii)(II), after the word `tribe' the parenthetical phrase
 `(or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe)'.
SEC. 205. JOINT VENTURES WITH TRIBALLY OWNED PARTICIPANTS IN THE 8(a) PROGRAM.
 Section 602 of the Business Opportunity Development Reform Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 637 note) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c), by striking `two' and inserting `5', and
 (2) in subsection (e), by striking `September 30, 1991' and inserting
 `September 30, 1994'.
SEC. 206. SURETY BOND WAIVER AUTHORITY.
 Section 7(j)(13)(D)(iii) of the Small Business Act (15
 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(D)(iii)) is amended by striking `October 1, 1992' and
 inserting `October 1, 1994'.
SEC. 207. ESTABLISHING AWARD ELIGIBILITY FOR CONTRACT OPPORTUNITIES COMPETED
UNDER SECTION 8(a).
 Section 8(a)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking subparagraph (B);
 (2) by striking the flush left sentence following subparagraph (C);
 (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B); and
 (4) by adding a new subparagraph (C) as follows:
 `(C) to make an award to a small business concern owned and controlled by
 socially and economically disadvantaged individuals which has completed
 its period of Program Participation as prescribed by section 7(j)(15), if--
 `(i) the contract will be awarded as a result of an offer (including price)
 submitted in response to a published solicitation relating to a competition
 conducted pursuant to subparagraph (D); and
 `(ii) the prospective contract awardee was a Program Participant eligible for
 award of the contract on the date specified for receipt of offers contained
 in the contract solicitation.'.
SEC. 208. BUNDLING OF CONTRACTS.
 Section 15(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(a)) is amended
 by adding before `Whenever' the following new sentences: `If a proposed
 procurement includes in its statement of work goods or services currently
 being performed by a small business, and if the proposed procurement is
 in a quantity or estimated dollar value the magnitude of which renders
 small business prime contract participation unlikely, or if a proposed
 procurement for construction seeks to package or consolidate discrete
 construction projects, the Procurement Activity shall provide a copy of the
 proposed procurement to the Procurement Activity's Small Business Procurement
 Center Representative at least 30 days prior to the solicitation's issuance
 along with a statement explaining (1) why the proposed acquisition cannot
 be divided into reasonably small lots (not less than economic production
 runs) to permit offers on quantities less than the total requirement,
 (2) why delivery schedules cannot be established on a realistic basis that
 will encourage small business participation to the extent consistent with
 the actual requirements of the Government, (3) why the proposed acquisition
 cannot be offered so as to make small business participation likely, or (4)
 why construction cannot be procured as separate discrete projects. The
 thirty-day notification process shall occur concurrently with other
 processing steps required prior to issuance of the solicitation. Within 15
 days after receipt of the proposed procurement and accompanying statement,
 if the Procurement Center Representative believes that the procurement as
 proposed will render small business prime contract participation unlikely,
 the Representative shall recommend to the Procurement Activity alternative
 procurement methods which would increase small business prime contracting
 opportunities.'.
SEC. 209. DESIGNATED PROCUREMENT CENTER REPRESENTATIVES.
 Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall station a traditional
 procurement center representative at the Department of Agriculture, the
 Navy Sea Systems Command, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Such
 representatives shall be in addition to the representatives stationed or
 designated to be stationed on the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 210. NONMANUFACTURER RULE.
 Section 8(a)(17)(B)(iv) of the Small Business Act (15
 U.S.C. 637(a)(17)(B)(iv)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(iv) represent that it will supply the product of a domestic small business
 manufacturer or processor, unless a waiver of such requirement is granted--
 `(I) by the Administrator, after reviewing a determination by the contracting
 officer that no small business manufacturer or processor can reasonably be
 expected to offer a product meeting the specifications (including period
 for performance) required of an offeror by the solicitation; or
 `(II) by the Administrator for a product (or class of products), after
 determining that no small business manufacturer or processor is available
 to participate in the Federal procurement market.'.
SEC. 211. COMMISSION ON MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT.
 Section 505(c)(1)(A)(ii) of the Business Opportunity Development Reform
 Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended to read as follows:
 `(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, or a designee of such
 Under Secretary.'.
SEC. 212. SUNSET ON AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TECHNICAL AND MANAGERIAL ASSISTANCE
THROUGH PRIVATE SECTOR SOURCES.
 Section 7(b) of the Small Business Computer Security and Education Act of 1984
 (15 U.S.C. 633 note) is amended by striking `October 1, 1990' and inserting
 `March 31, 1991'.
PART B--SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT ACT
SEC. 214. DEVELOPMENT COMPANY FINANCINGS.
 (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS- Section 501(a) of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) The Congress hereby finds and declares that the purpose of this title is
 to foster economic development and to create or preserve job opportunities in
 both urban and rural areas by providing long-term financing for small business
 concerns through the development company program authorized by this title.'.
 (b) POLICY CONSIDERATIONS- Section 501 of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new subsection:
 `(d) In order to qualify for assistance under this title, the development
 company must demonstrate that the project to be funded is directed toward
 at least one of the following economic development objectives--
 `(1) the creation of job opportunities within two years of the completion
 of the project or the preservation or retention of jobs attributable to
 the project;
 `(2) improving the economy of the locality, such as stimulating other
 business development in the community, bringing new income into the area,
 or assisting the community in diversifying and stabilizing its economy; or
 `(3) the achievement of one or more of the following public policy goals:
 `(A) business district revitalization,
 `(B) expansion of exports,
 `(C) expansion of minority business development,
 `(D) rural development,
 `(E) enhanced economic competition, including the advancement of technology,
 plan retooling, conversion to robotics, or competition with imports,
 `(F) changes necessitated by Federal budget cutbacks, including defense
 related industries, or
 `(G) business restructuring arising from Federally  mandated  standards
 or  policies  affecting the environment or the safety and health of employees.
If eligibility is based upon the criteria set forth in paragraph (2) or
(3), the project need not meet the job creation or job preservation criteria
developed by the Administration if the overall portfolio of the development
company meets or exceeds such job creation or retention criteria.'.
 (c) SPECIAL LOAN LIMITATIONS- Section 502 of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958 is amended by striking the period at the end of paragraph
 (2) and by inserting the following: `, except loans meeting the criteria
 specified in section 501(d)(3) shall be limited to $1,000,000 for each such
 identifiable small business concern.'.
SEC. 215. SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES.
 (a) LIMITS IN CASES OF COMMON CONTROL-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The last sentence of section 303(b)(1) of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958 is amended to read as follows: `In no event shall
 the debentures guaranteed and outstanding under this title of any such
 company or companies which are commonly controlled as determined by the
 Administration exceed $35,000,000.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall become
 effective on July 1, 1991.
 (b) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE- Section 303 of the Small Business Investment Act
 of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `under the provisions of this title,' in paragraph (6)
 of subsection (c) after `debentures or securities'; and
 (2) by striking the third sentence in subsection (d).
SEC. 216. PILOT PREFERRED SURETY BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM.
 (a) SUNSET- Section 207 of the Small Business Administration Reauthorization
 and Amendment Act of 1988, Public Law 100-590, is amended to read as follows:
 `The provisions contained in section 411(a)(3) of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 694b(a)(3)) shall cease to be effective
 after September 30, 1994.'.
 (b) EVALUATION AND REPORT- Section 206 of the Small Business Administration
 Reauthorization and Amendment Act of 1988 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking `Not later than' and inserting `(a)
 not later than'; and
 (2) by striking the last sentence and inserting:
 `(b) The report required by subsection (a) shall be transmitted not later
 than March 1, 1994 and cover the period October 1, 1990 through September
 30, 1993.'.
PART C--SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION MANAGEMENT
SEC. 221. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633) is amended
 by striking `The Administrator is authorized to appoint a Deputy Administrator
 and' in the fourth sentence of subsection (b)(1) and inserting the following:
 `The President also may appoint a Deputy Administrator, by and with the
 advice and consent of the Senate. The Administrator is authorized to appoint'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 any vacancy in the position of Deputy Administrator of the Small Business
 Administration after the date of the enactment of this Act.
PART D--DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS AND STUDIES
SEC. 231. SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established within the Small Business
 Administration a Small Business Technology Transfer Demonstration Program
 (hereafter referred to as the `Program').
 (b) PURPOSE OF PROGRAM- The purpose of the Program is to demonstrate the
 feasibility of providing small businesses with education, training, and
 technical assistance with respect to technology transfer and application
 through an eligible entity.
 (c) PROGRAM ACTIVITIES- The eligible entity shall undertake, through
 a regional network of participating community and technical colleges,
 a program of activities to provide small business concerns training and
 assistance with respect to--
 (1) technological innovations,
 (2) statistical process control,
 (3) computer-assisted design,
 (4) computer-assisted manufacturing and computer-integrated manufacturing,
 (5) implementation and deployment of telecommunications and other interactive
 systems, and
 (6) other new equipment and advanced manufacturing processes.
 (d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT- The Administration is authorized to award a
 cooperative agreement to an eligible entity to undertake a demonstration
 program pursuant to this subsection.
 (e) REGULATIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Administrator shall issue regulations for the
 implementation of the Program within 180 days of the date of the enactment
 of this Act.
 (2) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING- In addition to any other matters which the
 Administration deems appropriate, such Program regulations shall provide for
 the allocation of funds among the educational institutions that comprise
 the eligible entity on the basis of scope of the assistance and training
 activities to be offered small business concerns under the Program and the
 capability of the educational institution to provide such Program activities.
 (f) USE OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS AND OTHER RESOURCES- In
 implementing the Program, the Administrator shall assure that the eligible
 entity uses to the maximum extent feasible Small Business Development
 Centers, receiving support pursuant to section 21 of the Small Business Act
 (15 U.S.C. 648), and other available sources in conducting the Program.
 (g) DURATION OF THE PROGRAM- The Program shall terminate on September
 30, 1993.
 (h) REPORT- The Administrator shall monitor the implementation of the
 Program established by this section and submit a report evaluating such
 implementation to the Committees on Small Business of the Senate and
 the House of Representatives by not later than June 30, 1993, including
 appropriate recommendations regarding continuation of the Program and its
 extension to other regions in the country.
 (i) AUTHORIZATION- There is authorized to be appropriated to the Small
 Business Administration $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992,
 and 1993 to carry out the Program established by this section.
 (j) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 (1) The term `eligible entity' means the Community College Association
 for Technology Transfer or, if such organization is not available, another
 not-for-profit association of community and technical colleges determined to
 be eligible for an award of a cooperative agreement, under the regulations
 issued pursuant to subsection (e).
 (2) The term `Community College Association for Technology Transfer' (`CCATT')
 means a coalition currently composed of 16 community and technical colleges
 located in the Midwest which has proposed a cooperative regional program
 for technology transfer and application for the benefit of small businesses
 to revitalize the regional economy.
SEC. 232. PILOT TECHNOLOGY ACCESS PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Small Business Administration, in consultation
 with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the National
 Technical Information Service, shall establish a Pilot Technology Access
 Program (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Program'), for making
 grants under this section to a maximum of 5 States.
 (b) CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF STATES- The Administrator of the Small Business
 Administration shall establish competitive, merit-based criteria for the
 selection of States to receive grants on the basis of--
 (1) the ability of the State to carry out the purposes described in subsection
 (d) in a manner relevant to the needs of industries in that State;
 (2) the ability of the State to integrate the implementation of the Program
 with existing Federal and State technical and business assistance resources,
 including Small Business Development Centers; and
 (3) the ability of the State to continue the program established pursuant
 to this section after the termination of the Program.
 (c) MATCHING REQUIREMENT- To be eligible to receive a grant under this
 section, a State shall be required to provide at least an equal amount of
 funds as that received under such grant.
 (d) PURPOSE OF GRANTS- Grants made to States under this section shall
 be for the purpose of increasing access by small businesses to on-line
 data base services that provide technical and business information, and
 access to technical experts, in a wide range of technologies, through such
 activities as--
 (1) defraying the cost of access by small businesses to the data base
 services;
 (2) training small businesses in the use of the data base services; and
 (3) establishing a public point of access to the data base services.
Activities described in paragraphs (1) through (3) may be carried out through
contract with a private entity.
 (e) EVALUATION- After the completion of 3 years after the date on which the
 first grant is issued under this section, and within 6 months after the
 termination of the Program, the General Accounting Office shall evaluate
 the effectiveness of the Program in stimulating technological progress,
 and shall report the findings to the Committee on Small Business and the
 Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives
 and to the Committee on Small Business and the Committee on Commerce,
 Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
 (f) TERMINATION- The Program shall terminate on September 30, 1995.
 (g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Small Business Administration for carrying out this section--
 (1) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1991; and
 (2) $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995.
SEC. 233. FEASIBILITY STUDY OF BUSINESS COOPERATION NETWORK.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall
 conduct a study of the feasibility of establishing a business cooperation
 system similar to the Business Cooperation Network developed by the European
 Economic Community.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the study shall be to identify--
 (1) the total cost to implement such a system in this country;
 (2) all existing business data systems at the Federal, state local government
 levels which would be of assistance in developing a program similar to
 either the Euro-Info-Centre and/or the European Business Cooperation Network;
 (3) all existing business data systems in the private sector which would be
 of assistance in developing a program similar to either the Euro-Info-Centre
 and/or the European Business Cooperation Network;
 (4) the amount of time it would take to fully implement this program in
 all fifty States; and
 (5) the benefits to the international competitiveness of the United States.
 (c) PARTICIPATION- In conducting the study, the Administrator shall encourage
 participation of all appropriate Federal departments and agencies, appropriate
 State departments and agencies, appropriate small business representative
 groups, and any other public and/or private entities which would play a
 role in the development of such a system.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this
 Act, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report containing the
 results of the study together with recommendations for such legislative
 and administrative actions as the Administrator considers appropriate.
SEC. 234. STUDY ON IMPACT OF ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE TECHNOLOGY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall
 conduct a study of the impact of electronic data interchange technology on
 small business concerns.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the study shall be to identify--
 (1) the benefits of electronic data interchange technology with respect to
 small business concerns;
 (2) the adverse effects of electronic data interchange technology with
 respect to small business concerns;
 (3) technical and financial assistance which the Small Business Administration
 can offer to small business concerns which seek to use electronic data
 interchange technology;
 (4) measures which may be taken to implement a uniform technical standard
 for electronic data interchange technology;
 (5) measures which may be taken to prevent electronic data interchange
 technology in the Federal procurement process from having an adverse effect
 on small business concerns; and
 (6) other measures which may be taken to prevent electronic data interchange
 technology from becoming a competitive barrier to small business concerns.
 (c) PARTICIPATION- In conducting the study, the Administrator shall encourage
 participation by Federal departments and agencies, small business concerns,
 and other private and public entities.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than one hundred and eighty days after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a
 report containing the results of the study together with recommendations for
 such legislative and administrative actions as the Administrator considers
 appropriate.
PART E--REPEALERS AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 241. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROCUREMENT REPORTING.
 Section 10(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 639(d)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `the Department of Defense shall make a monthly report to
 the President, the President of the Senate, the Senate Select Committee on
 Small Business, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives not less
 than 45 days after the close of the month' and inserting `the Department
 of Defense shall make an annual report to the Committees on Small Business
 of the Senate and the House of Representatives';
 (2) by striking `small-business concerns' and inserting `small business
 concerns'; and
 (3) by striking `such monthly reports' and inserting `such reports'.
SEC. 242. EXPIRED PROVISION.
 Section 7(j) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)) is amended--
 (1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3); and
 (2) by striking paragraph (8).
SEC. 243. REPORTING OF SUBCONTRACTING ACTIVITY.
 Section 714 of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program
 Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note) is amended by striking subsection (b)
 and by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
SEC. 244. NOTICES OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
 Section 8(g)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(g)(1)) is amended
 by striking `(a)(1)' and inserting `(e)(1)'.
SEC. 245. TIME LIMIT ON SECONDARY MARKET SALES.
 Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended by
 striking the last sentence of subparagraph (A) of paragraph (16).
TITLE III--ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Rural Small Business Enhancement Act of 1990'.
SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF RURAL AFFAIRS.
 The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended by inserting
 after section 25 the following new section:
`SEC. 26. OFFICE OF RURAL AFFAIRS.
 `(a) There is hereby established in the Small Business Administration
 an Office of Rural Affairs (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `Office').
 `(b) The Office shall be headed by a director who shall be appointed by
 the Administrator not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment
 of this section.
 `(c) The Office shall--
 `(1) strive to achieve an equitable distribution of the financial assistance
 available from the Administration for small business concerns located in
 rural areas;
 `(2) to the extent practicable, compile annual statistics on rural areas,
 including statistics concerning the population, poverty, job creation and
 retention, unemployment, business failures, and business startups;
 `(3) provide information to industries, organizations, and State and local
 governments concerning the assistance available to rural small business
 concerns through the Administration and through other Federal departments
 and agencies;
 `(4) provide information to industries, organizations, educational
 institutions, and State and local governments concerning programs administered
 by private organizations, educational institutions, and Federal, State,
 and local governments which improve the economic opportunities of rural
 citizens; and
 `(5) work with the United States Tourism and Travel Administration to assist
 small businesses in rural areas with tourism promotion and development.'.
SEC. 303. SBDC RURAL ACTIVITIES.
 Section 21 of the Small Business Act is further amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (L) of subsection (c)(3)
 (2) by redesignating subparagraph (M) of subsection (c)(3) as subparagraph
 (P); and
 (3) by inserting after subparagraph (L) the following new subparagraphs:
 `(M) in cooperation with the Department of Commerce, the Administration and
 other relevant Federal agencies, actively assisting rural small businesses
 in exporting by identifying and developing potential export markets for rural
 small businesses, facilitating export transactions for rural small businesses,
 developing linkages between United States' rural small businesses and
 prescreened foreign buyers, assisting rural small businesses to participate
 in international trade shows, assisting rural small businesses in obtaining
 export financing and developing marketing and production strategies;
 `(N) assisting rural small businesses--
 `(i) in developing marketing and production strategies that will enable
 them to better compete in the domestic market--
 `(ii) by providing technical assistance needed by rural small businesses;
 `(iii) by making available managerial assistance to rural small business
 concerns; and
 `(iv) by providing information and assistance in obtaining financing for
 business startups and expansion;
 `(O) in conjunction with the United States Travel and Tourism Administration,
 assist rural small business in developing the tourism potential of rural
 communities by--
 `(i) identifying the cultural, historic, recreational, and scenic resources
 of such communities;
 `(ii) providing assistance to small businesses in developing tourism
 marketing and promotion plans relating to tourism in rural areas; and
 `(iii) assisting small business concerns to obtain capital for starting or
 expanding businesses primarily serving tourists; and'.
SEC. 304. CATALOG OF PROGRAMS TO ASSIST RURAL SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS.
 (a) COMPILATION- Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
 this title, the Small Business Administration shall compile a catalog of
 programs administered by Federal and State departments and agencies which
 offer assistance to small business concerns in rural areas. Such catalog
 shall include a description of each such program and the name, address, and
 telephone number of the respective Federal and State officials responsible
 for administering the program.
 (b) DISTRIBUTION- Copies of the catalog compiled pursuant to subsection
 (a) shall be transmitted to the Congress and copies shall be made available
 to small business concerns in rural areas, appropriate trade associations,
 Federal and State agencies for the assistance of small business concerns,
 State and local chambers of commerce, other appropriate nonprofit
 organizations, and the general public.
 (c) BIANNUAL UPDATE- The Small Business Administration shall issue updates
 of the catalog compiled pursuant to subsection (a) by February 1, 1993,
 and February 1, 1995.
SEC. 305. AREA STATISTICS IN PRESIDENTIAL REPORT.
 Section 303 of the Small Business Economic Policy Act of 1980 (Public Law
 96-302) is amended by striking paragraph (2) of subsection (a) and inserting
 the following:
 `(2) present current and historical data on production, employment,
 investment, population, job creation and retention, annual business failures,
 annual business startups, and other economic variables for small business in
 the economy as a whole and for small business in each sector of the economy,
 with, to the extent practicable, specific statistics divided as to urban,
 suburban, and rural areas;'.
SEC. 306. RURAL SMALL BUSINESS CONFERENCES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business
 Administration shall, as soon as practicable after the catalog (described
 in section 305 and hereinafter referred to as the `catalog') is issued,
 but not later than 90 days after the date such catalog is issued, convene
 regional rural conferences in 5 cities or towns in the United States.
 (b) PREPARATIONS- Prior to the conferences, the Office of Advocacy shall--
 (1) select the sites for the conferences in order to encourage the
 maximum participation of all interested parties including private citizens
 and representatives of business, government, educational and nonprofit
 institutions; and
 (2) distribute the catalog of programs and such other background materials
 prepared by the Office of Advocacy as the Chief Counsel deems appropriate.
 (c) PURPOSES OF THE CONFERENCES- The conference shall--
 (1) review the effectiveness of current Federal programs to promote rural
 small business and its needs, with particular reference to the catalog of
 such programs;
 (2) review how current Federal programs could be made more accessible to
 small businesses located in rural areas;
 (3) make recommendations on how current programs can be approved to better
 address small business needs in rural areas;
 (4) review the availability and cost of capital, transportation, and
 telecommunications in rural areas;
 (5) review the availability of technical assistance and training programs for
 small business needs in rural areas, including marketing, computer training,
 accounting, financing, and international trade; and
 (6) determine any additional needs of small businesses in rural areas.
 (d) REPORT- The Chief Counsel for Advocacy shall prepare a summary of the
 findings and recommendations of each regional conference. Not later than
 60 days after the last of the 5 regional conferences have been held, the
 Chief Counsel for Advocacy shall transmit such summaries to the Congress
 and the President, along with conclusions and recommendations, including
 specific legislative proposals and recommendations for administrative or
 other actions. The transmittal of the required information shall be deemed
 a report of the Chief Counsel for Advocacy under the terms and conditions
 of section 206 of Public Law 94-305. To the extent practicable, the report
 shall estimate the cost of implementing each recommendation of a regional
 conference as well as those of the Chief Counsel.
SEC. 307. PILOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN PROGRAM.
 Section 7(a)(19) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(19)) is amended
 by adding the following new paragraph:
 `(C) In order to encourage lending institutions and other entities making
 loans authorized under this subsection to provide loans to small business
 loan applicants located in rural areas, such lenders shall be permitted to
 retain one-half of the fee collected pursuant to paragraph (18) on loans of
 less than $75,000. A participating lender may not retain any fee pursuant to
 this subparagraph if the amount committed and outstanding to the applicant
 would exceed $75,000 unless the amount in excess of $75,000 is an amount
 not approved under the provisions of this subparagraph. This subparagraph
 shall cease to be effective on October 1, 1995.'.
SEC. 308. RURAL SMALL BUSINESS INCUBATORS.
 It is the sense of the Congress that small business incubators can play a
 constructive role in rural development. Accordingly, the National Association
 of Development Companies, and any interested, certified development companies
 licensed by the Small Business Administration under title V of the Small
 Business Investment Act of 1958, and other interested parties are requested
 and encouraged to develop proposals under which Development Companies located
 in rural areas could establish, operate or otherwise cooperate with small
 business incubators for startup small business. Such proposals, including
 recommendations regarding needed Federal assistance, both monetary and
 legislative, should be submitted to the Small Business Administration and to
 the Committees on Small Business of the Senate and House of Representatives
 not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section.
SEC. 309. EFFECTS OF DEREGULATION ON RURAL AMERICA.
 (a) STUDY- The Office of Technology Assessment shall conduct a study of the
 effects of deregulation on the economic vitality of rural areas. Such study
 shall include, but not be limited to, a thorough analysis of the impact of
 deregulation on--
 (1) the number of loans made by financial institutions to small businesses
 located in rural areas, a change in the level of security interests required
 for such loans, and the cost of such loans to rural small businesses for
 creation and expansion;
 (2) airline service in cities and towns with populations of 100,000 or less,
 including airline fare, the number of flights available, number of seats
 available, scheduling of flights, continuity of service, number of markets
 being served by large and small airlines, availability of nonstop service,
 availability of direct service, number of economic cancellations, number
 of flight delays, the types of airplanes used, and time delays;
 (3) the availability and costs of bus, rail and trucking transportation
 for businesses located in rural areas;
 (4) the availability and costs of state-of-the-art telecommunications services
 to small businesses located in rural areas, including voice telephone
 service, private (not multiparty) telephone service, reliable facsimile
 document and data transmission, competitive long distance carriers, cellular
 (mobile) telephone service, multifrequency tone signaling services such as
 touchtone services, custom-calling services (including three-way calling,
 call forwarding, and call waiting), voicemail services, and 911 emergency
 services with automatic number identification;
 (5) the availability and costs to rural schools, hospitals, and other
 public facilities, of sending and receiving audio and visual signals in
 cases where such ability will enhance the quality of services provided to
 rural residents and businesses; and
 (6) the availability and costs of services enumerated in paragraphs (1)
 through (5) in urban areas compared to rural areas.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this
 title, the Office of Technology Assessment shall transmit to Congress a report
 on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a) together with
 its recommendations on how to address the problems facing small businesses
 in rural areas.
SEC. 310. TOURISM DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 The Small Business Act is amended by inserting after section 26 the following
 new section:
`SEC. 27. TOURISM DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Administration is authorized to make grants to conduct
 demonstration programs in 5 States in order to promote tourism activities
 delivered by small businesses. The purpose of the program shall be to
 demonstrate ways in which the economy in rural areas may be improved by
 encouraging tourism and its resulting increase in income and employment in
 rural areas. The Administration shall require as a condition of any grant
 under this section that the applicant also contribute to the demonstration
 program a sum equal to at least 25 percent of the amount of the funding
 requested from the Federal Government.
 `(b) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
 the provision of this section, $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and such
 sums may remain available until expended.
 `(c) REPORT- Not later than February 1, 1993, the Administration shall
 submit to the President and the Congress a report on activities undertaken
 pursuant to this section.'.
SEC. 311. RURAL TOURISM TRAINING PROGRAM.
 The Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration shall
 conduct training sessions on the types of Federal assistance available for the
 development of rural small businesses engaged in tourism and tourism-related
 activities. Such training sessions shall be conducted in conjunction with
 the Office of Rural Affairs (established pursuant to section 26 of the Small
 Business Act) and appropriate personnel designated by each district office
 of the Administration.
TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS
SEC. 401. CONTRACT GOALS FOR MINORITIES IN PRINTING RELATED SERVICES.
 Section 843 of the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989
 (Public Law 100-456; 44 U.S.C. 502 note) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `and, during fiscal years 1989 and 1990,'
 and inserting `and'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(e) DURATION OF TEST- The test program established by subsection (a)
 shall not apply to solicitations issued on or after October 1, 1993.'.
SEC. 402. SUSPENSION OF LIQUIDATED DAMAGES UNDER COMPREHENSIVE SMALL BUSINESS
SUBCONTRACTING PLANS.
 To facilitate participation in the test program for the negotiation of
 comprehensive small business subcontracting plans pursuant to section 834
 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991
 (Public Law 101-189; 103 Stat. 1510), subsection (d) of such section
 is hereby suspended for the period of the test program as specified in
 subsection (e) of such section.
SEC. 403. DEFINITION OF ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES.
 Pursuant to section 742 of Public Law 100-656, modifications to Part 36 of
 the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. Part 36) shall specify that
 the definition of architectural and engineering services includes surveying
 and mapping services to which the selection procedures of Subpart 36.6 of
 the Federal Acquisition Regulation apply.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.