 
--H.R.5390--
H.R.5390
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To prevent and control infestations of the coastal inland waters of the United
States by the zebra mussel and other nonindigenous aquatic nuisance species,
to reauthorize the National Sea Grant College Program, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
`TITLE I--AQUATIC NUISANCE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
Subtitle A--General Provisions
`SECTION 1001. SHORT TITLE.
 `This title may be cited as the `Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention
 and Control Act of 1990'.
`SEC. 1002. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) the discharge of untreated water in the ballast tanks of vessels and
 through other means results in unintentional introductions of nonindigenous
 species to fresh, brackish, and saltwater environments;
 `(2) when environmental conditions are favorable, nonindigenous species,
 such as the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha), become established and
 may disrupt the aquatic environment and economy of affected coastal areas;
 `(3) the zebra mussel was unintentionally introduced into the Great Lakes
 and, if left uncontrolled, is expected to infest over two-thirds of the
 continental United States through the unintentional transportation of larvae
 and adults by vessels operating in inland waters; and
 `(4) the potential economic disruption to communities affected by the zebra
 mussel due to its colonization of water pipes, boat hulls and other hard
 surfaces has been estimated at $5,000,000,000 by the year 2000, and the
 potential disruption  to the diversity and abundance of native fish and
 other species could be severe.
 `(b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 `(1) to prevent unintentional introduction and dispersal of nonindigenous
 species into waters of the United States through ballast water management
 and other requirements;
 `(2) to coordinate federally conducted, funded or authorized research,
 prevention control, information dissemination and other activities regarding
 the zebra mussel and other aquatic nuisance species;
 `(3) to develop and carry out environmentally sound control methods to
 prevent, monitor and control unintentional introductions of nonindigenous
 species from pathways other than ballast water exchange;
 `(4) to understand and minimize economic and ecological impacts of
 nonindigenous aquatic nuisance species that become established, including
 the zebra mussel; and
 `(5) to establish a program of research and technology development and
 assistance to States in the management and removal of zebra mussels.
`SEC. 1003. DEFINITIONS.
 `As  used in this Act, the term--
 `(1) `appropriate Committees' means the Committee on Merchant Marine and
 Fisheries in the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment
 and Public Works and Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in
 the Senate; and
 `(2) `aquatic nuisance species' means a nonindigenous species that threatens
 the diversity or abundance of native species or the ecological stability of
 infested waters, or commercial, agricultural, aquacultural or recreational
 activities dependent on such waters;
 `(3) `assistant Secretary' means the Assistant Secretary of the Army
 (Civil Works);
 `(4) `ballast water' means any water and associated sediments used to
 manipulate the trim and stability of a vessel;
 `(5) `Director' means the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife
 Service;
 `(6) `exclusive economic zone' means the Exclusive Economic Zone of the
 United States established by Proclamation Number 5030, dated March 10,
 1983, and the equivalent zone of Canada;
 `(7) `environmentally sound' methods, efforts, actions or programs means
 methods, efforts, actions or programs to prevent introductions or control
 infestations of aquatic nuisance species that minimize adverse impacts to
 the structure and function of an ecosystem and adverse effects on non-target
 organisms and ecosystems and emphasize integrated pest management techniques
 and nonchemical measures;
 `(8) `Great Lakes' means Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron (including
 Lake St. Clair), Lake Michigan, Lake Superior, and the connecting channels
 (Saint  Mary's River, Saint Clair River, Detroit River, Niagara River, and
 Saint Lawrence River to the Canandian Border), and includes all other bodies
 of water within the drainage basin of such lakes and connecting channels.
 `(9) `nonindigenous species' means any species or other viable biological
 material that enters an ecosystem beyond its historic range, including any
 such organism transferred from one country into another;
 `(10) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the department in which the Coast
 Guard is operating;
 `(11) `Task Force' means the Aquatic Nuisance Species Task Force established
 under section 1201 of this Act;
 `(12) `territorial sea' means the belt of the sea measured from the baseline
 of the United States determined in accordance with international law, as
 set forth in Presidential Proclamation Number 5928, dated December 27, 1988;
 `(13) `Under Secretary' means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans
 and Atmosphere;
 `(14) `waters of the United States' means the navigable waters and the
 territorial sea of the United States; and
 `(15) `unintentional introduction' means an introduction of nonindigenous
 species that occurs as the result of activities other than the purposeful
 or intentional introduction of the species involved, such as the transport
 of nonindigenous species in ballast or in water used to transport fish,
 mollusks or crustaceans for aquaculture or other purposes.
`Subtitle B--Prevention of Unintentional Introductions of Aquatic Nuisance
Species
`SEC. 1101. AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES IN THE GREAT LAKES.
 `(a) GUIDELINES- (1) Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment
 of the Act, the Secretary shall issue voluntary guidelines to prevent the
 introduction and spread of aquatic nuisance species into the Great Lakes
 through the exchange of ballast water of vessels prior to entering those
 waters.
 `(2) The guidelines issued under this subsection shall--
 `(A) ensure to the maximum extent practicable that ballast water containing
 aquatic nuisance species is not discharged into the Great Lakes;
 `(B) protect the safety of each vessel, its crew, and passengers;
 `(C) take into consideration different vessel operating conditions; and
 `(D) be based on the best scientific information available.
 `(3) Within 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 shall carry out education and technical assistance programs and other measures
 to encourage compliance with the guidelines issued under this subsection.
 `(b) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY- (1) Within 24 months after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Task Force, shall issue
 regulations  to prevent the introduction and spread of aquatic nuisance
 species into the Great Lakes through the ballast water of vessels.
 `(2) The regulations issued under this subsection shall--
 `(A) require all vessels that carry ballast water and enter a United States
 port on the Great Lakes after operating on the waters beyond the exclusive
 economic zone;
 `(B) require a vessel to--
 `(i) carry out exchange of ballast water on the waters beyond the exclusive
 economic zone prior to entry into any port within the Great Lakes;
 `(ii) carry out an exchange of ballast water in other waters where
 the exchange does not pose a threat of infestation or spread of aquatic
 nuisance species in the Great Lakes and other waters of the United States,
 as recommended by the Task Force under section 1102(a)(1); or
 `(iii) use environmentally sound alternative ballast water management methods
 if the Secretary determines that such alternative methods are as effective
 as ballast water exchange in preventing and controlling infestations of
 aquatic nuisance species.
 `(C) not affect or supersede any requirements or prohibitions pertaining
 to the discharge of ballast water into waters of the United States under
 the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
 `(D) provide for sampling procedures to monitor compliance with the
 requirements of the regulations;
 `(E) prohibit the operation of a vessel in the Great Lakes if the master of
 the vessel has not certified to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee
 by not later than the departure of that vessel from the first lock in the
 St. Lawrence Seaway that the vessel has complied with the requirements of
 the regulations;
 `(F) request the Secretary of the Treasury to withhold or revoke the clearance
 required by section 4197 of the Revised Statutes (46 App. U.S.C. 91) of a
 vessel, the owner or operator of which is in violation of the regulations;
 `(G) protect the safety of each vessel, its crew, and passengers;
 `(H) take into consideration different vessel operating conditions; and
 `(I) be based on the best scientific information available.
 `(c) CIVIL PENALTIES- Any person who violates the regulations issued under
 subsection (b) shall be liable for a civil penalty in an amount not to
 exceed $25,000. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate
 violation. A vessel operated in violation of the regulations is liable in
 rem for any civil penalty assessed under this subsection for that violation.
 `(d) CRIMINAL PENALTIES- Any person who knowingly violates the regulations
 issued under subsection (b) is guilty of a class C felony.
 `(e) CONSULTATION WITH CANADA- In developing the guidelines and regulations,
 the Secretary is encouraged to consult with the Government of Canada to
 develop an effective international program for preventing the introduction
 and spread of aquatic nuisance species in the Great Lakes from the ballast
 water of vessels.
`SEC. 1102. NATIONAL BALLAST WATER CONTROL PROGRAM.
 `(a) Studies on Introduction of Aquatic Nuisance Species by Vessels-
 `(1) BALLAST EXCHANGE STUDY- The Task Force shall conduct a study--
 `(A) to assess the environmental effects of ballast water exchange on the
 diversity and abundance of native species in receiving estuarine, marine,
 and fresh waters of the United States; and
 `(B) to identify areas within the waters of the United States and the
 exclusive economic zone, if any, where the exchange of ballast water does
 not pose a threat of infestation or spread of aquatic nuisance species in
 the Great Lakes and other waters of the United States.
 `(2) BIOLOGICAL STUDY- The Task Force shall conduct a study to determine
 whether aquatic nuisance species threaten the ecological characteristics
 and economic uses of waters of the United States other than the Great Lakes.
 `(3) SHIPPING STUDY- The Secretary shall conduct a study to determine the
 need for controls on vessels entering waters of the United States, other
 than the Great Lakes, to minimize the risk of unintentional introduction
 and dispersal of aquatic nuisance species in those waters. The study shall
 include an examination of--
 `(A) the degree to which shipping may be a major pathway of transmission
 of aquatic nuisance species in those waters;
 `(B) possible alternatives for controlling introduction of those species
 through shipping; and
 `(C) the feasibility of implementing regional versus national control
 measures.
 `(b) CONSULTATION- The Secretary and the Task Force shall cooperate in
 conducting their respective studies under this section.
 `(c) REPORTS-
 `(1) BALLAST EXCHANGE- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment
 of this Act and prior to the effective date of the regulations issued under
 section 1101(b), the Task Force shall submit a report to the appropriate
 Committees that presents the results of the study required under subsection
 (a)(1) and makes recommendations with respect to such regulations.
 `(2) BIOLOGICAL AND SHIPPING STUDIES- Not later than 18 months after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Task Force shall each submit
 to the appropriate Committees a report on the results of their respective
 studies under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a).
 `(d) NEGOTIATIONS- The Secretary, working through the International Maritime
 Organization, is encouraged to enter into negotiations with the governments
 of foreign countries concerning the planning and implementation of measures
 aimed at the prevention and control of unintentional introductions of
 aquatic nuisance species in coastal waters.
`Subtitle C--Prevention and Control of Aquatic Nuisance Species
`SEC. 1201. ESTABLISHMENT OF TASK FORCE.
 `(a) TASK FORCE- There is hereby established an `Aquatic Nuisance Species
 Task Force'.
 `(b) MEMBERSHIP- Membership of the Task Force shall consist of--
 `(1) the Director;
 `(2) the Under Secretary;
 `(3) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
 `(4) the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard;
 `(5) the Assistant Secretary; and
 `(6) the head of any other Federal agency that the chairpersons designated
 under subsection (d) deem appropriate.
 `(c) EX OFFICIO MEMBERS- The chairpersons designated under subsection
 (d) shall invite representatives of the Great Lakes Commission and State
 agencies and other governmental entities to participate as ex officio
 members of the Task Force.
 `(d) CHAIRPERSONS- The Director and the Under Secretary shall serve as
 co-chairpersons of the Task Force and shall be jointly responsible, and are
 authorized to undertake such activities as may be necessary, for carrying
 out this subtitle in consultation and cooperation with the other members
 of the Task Force.
 `(e) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- Within six months of the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Director and the Under Secretary shall develop a memorandum
 of understanding that describes the role of each in jointly carrying out
 this subtitle.
 `(f) COORDINATION- Each Task Force member shall coordinate any action to
 carry out this subtitle with any such action by other members of the Task
 Force, and regional, State and local entities.
`SEC. 1202. AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES PROGRAM.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Task Force shall develop and implement a program
 for waters of the United States to prevent introduction and dispersal
 of aquatic nuisance species; to monitor, control and study such species;
 and to disseminate related information.
 `(b) CONTENT- The program developed under subsection (a) shall--
 `(1) identify the goals, priorities, and approaches for aquatic nuisance
 species prevention, monitoring, control, education and research to be
 conducted or funded by the Federal Government;
 `(2) describe the specific prevention, monitoring, control, education and
 research activities to be conducted by each Task Force member;
 `(3) coordinate aquatic nuisance species programs and activities of Task
 Force members and affected State agencies;
 `(4) describe the role of each Task Force member in implementing the elements
 of the program as set forth in this subtitle;
 `(5) include recommendations for funding to implement elements of the
 program; and
 `(6) develop a demonstration program of prevention, monitoring, control,
 education and research for the zebra mussel, to be implemented in the Great
 Lakes and any other waters infested, or likely to become infested in the
 near future, by the zebra mussel.
 `(c) PREVENTION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Task Force shall establish and implement measures,
 within  the program developed under subsection (a), to minimize the risk
 of introduction of aquatic nuisance species to waters of the United States,
 including--
 `(A) identification of pathways by which aquatic organisms are introduced
 to waters of the United States;
 `(B)  assessment of the risk that an aquatic organism carried by an identified
 pathway may become an aquatic nuisance species; and
 `(C) evaluation of whether measures to prevent introductions of aquatic
 nuisance species are effective and environmentally sound.
 `(2) IMPLEMENTATION- Whenever the Task Force determines that there is
 a substantial risk of unintentional introduction of an aquatic nuisance
 species by an identified pathway and that the adverse consequences of such
 an introduction are likely to be substantial, the Task Force shall, acting
 through the appropriate Federal agency, and after an opportunity for public
 comment, carry out cooperative, environmentally sound efforts with regional,
 State and local entities to minimize the risk of such an introduction.
 `(d) MONITORING- The Task Force shall establish and implement monitoring
 measures, within the program developed under subsection (a), to--
 `(1) detect unintentional introductions of aquatic nuisance  species;
 `(2) determine the dispersal of aquatic  nuisance species after introduction;
 and
 `(3) provide for the early detection and prevention of infestations of
 aquatic nuisance species in unaffected drainage basins.
 `(e) CONTROL-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Task Force may develop cooperative efforts, within
 the program established under subsection (a), to control  established
 aquatic nuisance species to minimize the risk of harm to the environment
 and the public health and welfare. For purposes of this Act, control efforts
 include eradication of infestations, reductions of populations, development
 of means of adapting human activities  and public facilities to accommodate
 infestations, and prevention of the spread of aquatic nuisance species from
 infested areas. Such control efforts shall be developed in consultation
 with affected Federal agencies, States, Indian Tribes, local governments,
 interjurisdictional organizations, and other appropriate entities. Control
 actions authorized by this section shall be based on the best available
 scientific information and shall be conducted in an environmentally sound
 manner.
 `(2) DECISIONS- The Task Force or any other affected agency or entity may
 recommend that the Task Force initiate a control effort. In determining
 whether a control program is warranted, the Task Force shall evaluate
 the need for control (including the projected consequences of no control
 and less than full control); the technical and biological feasibility and
 cost-effectiveness of alternative control strategies and actions; whether
 the benefits of control, including costs  avoided, exceed the costs of the
 program; the risk of harm to non-target organisms and ecosystems, public
 health and welfare; and such other considerations the Task Force determines
 appropriate. The Task Force shall also determine the nature and extent of
 control of target aquatic nuisance species that is feasible and desirable.
 `(3)  PROGRAMS- If the Task Force determines in accordance with paragraph (2)
 that control of an aquatic nuisance species is warranted, the  Task Force
 shall develop a proposed control program to achieve the target level of
 control. A notice summarizing the proposed action and soliciting comments
 shall be published in the Federal Register, in major newspapers in the
 region affected, and in principal trade publications of the industries
 affected. Within 180 days of proposing a control program, and after
 consultation with affected governmental and other appropriate entities and
 taking into consideration other comments received, the Task Force shall
 complete development of the proposed control program.
 `(f) RESEARCH-
 `(1) PRIORITIES- The Task Force shall, within the program developed under
 subsection (a), conduct research concerning--
 `(A) the environmental and economic risks associated with the introduction
 of aquatic nuisance species into the waters of the United States;
 `(B) the principal pathways by which aquatic nuisance species are introduced
 and dispersed;
 `(C) possible methods for the prevention, monitoring and control of aquatic
 nuisance species; and
 `(D) the assessment of the effectiveness of prevention, monitoring and
 control methods.
 `(2) PROTOCOL- Within 90 days of the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Task Force shall establish and follow a protocol to ensure that research
 activities carried out under this subtitle do not result in the introduction
 of aquatic nuisance species to waters of the United States.
 `(3) GRANTS FOR RESEARCH- The Task Force shall allocate funds authorized
 under this Act for competitive research grants to study all aspects of
 aquatic nuisance species, which shall be administered through the National
 Sea Grant College Program and the Cooperative Fishery and Wildlife Research
 Units. Grants shall be conditioned to ensure that any recipient of funds
 follows the protocol established under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
 `(g) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Task Force shall, within the program developed
 under subsection (a), provide technical assistance to State and local
 governments and persons to minimize the environmental, public health, and
 safety risks associated with aquatic nuisance species, including an early
 warning system for advance notice of possible infestations and appropriate
 responses.
 `(h) EDUCATION- The Task Force shall, with the program developed under
 subsection (a), establish and implement educational programs through Sea Grant
 Marine Advisory Services and any other available resources that it determines
 to be appropriate to inform the general public, State governments, governments
 of political subdivisions of States, and industrial and recreational users
 of aquatic resources in connection with matters concerning the identification
 of aquatic nuisance species, and control methods for such species, including
 the prevention of the further  distribution of such species.
 `(i) ZEBRA MUSSEL DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Task Force shall, within the program developed under
 subsection (a), undertake a program of prevention, monitoring, control,
 education and research for the zebra mussel to be implemented in the Great
 Lakes and any other waters of the United States infested or likely to become
 infested by the zebra mussel, including--
 `(A) research and development concerning the species life history,
 environmental tolerances and impacts on fisheries and other ecosystem
 components, and the efficacy of control mechanisms and means of avoiding
 or minimizing impacts;
 `(B) tracking the dispersal of the species and establishment of an early
 warning system to alert likely areas of future infestations;
 `(C) development of control plans in coordination with regional, State and
 local entities; and
 `(D) provision of technical assistance to regional, State and local entities
 to carry out this section.
 `(2) PUBLIC  FACILITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- The Assistant  Secretary,
 in consultation with the Task Force, shall develop a program of research
 and technology development for the environmentally sound control of zebra
 mussels in and around public facilities. The Assistant Secretary shall
 collect and make available, through publications and other appropriate means,
 information pertaining to such control methods.
 `(j) IMPLEMENTATION-
 `(1) REGULATIONS- Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Director and the Under Secretary may issue such rules and
 regulations as may be necessary to implement this section.
 `(2) PARTICIPATION OF OTHERS- The Task Force shall provide opportunities for
 affected Federal agencies which are not part of the Task Force, State and
 local government agencies, and regional and other entities with the necessary
 expertise to participate in control programs. If these other agencies  or
 entities have sufficient authority or jurisdiction and expertise and where
 this will be more efficient or effective, responsibility for implementing
 all or a portion of a control program may be delegated to such agencies
 or entities.
 `(k) REPORTS-
 `(1) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Task Force shall submit a report describing the program developed under
 subsection (a), including the research protocol required under subsection
 (f)(2), to the appropriate Committees.
 `(2) On an annual basis after the submission of the report under paragraph
 (1), the Task Force shall submit a report to the appropriate Committees
 detailing progress in carrying out this section.
`SEC. 1203. GREAT LAKES REGIONAL COORDINATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 30 days following the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Task Force shall request that the Great Lakes Commission
 (established under Article IV of the Great Lakes  Compact to which the
 Congress  granted consent in the Act of July 24, 1968, P.L. 90-419) convene
 a panel of Great Lakes representatives from Federal, State and local agencies
 and from private environmental and commercial interests to--
 `(1) identify priorities for the Great Lakes with respect to aquatic
 nuisance species;
 `(2)  make recommendations to the Task Force regarding programs to carry
 out section 1202(i) of this Act;
 `(3) assist the Task Force in coordinating Federal aquatic nuisance species
 program activities in the Great Lakes;
 `(4) coordinate, where possible, aquatic nuisance species program activities
 in the Great Lakes that are not conducted pursuant to this Act;
 `(5) provide advice to public and private individuals and entities concerning
 methods of controlling aquatic nuisance species; and
 `(6) submit annually a report to the Task Force describing activities
 within the Great Lakes related to aquatic nuisance species prevention,
 research, control.
 `(b) CONSULTATION- The Task Force shall request that the Great Lakes Fishery
 Commission provide information to the panel convened under this section on
 technical and policy matters related to the international fishery resources
 of the Great Lakes.
 `(c) CANADIAN PARTICIPATION- The panel convened under this section is
 encourage to invite representatives from the Federal, provincial or
 territorial governments of Canada to participate as observers.
`SEC. 1204. STATE AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES MANAGEMENT PLANS.
 `(a) State Plan-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Governor of each State may, after notice and opportunity
 for public comment, prepare and submit--
 `(A) a comprehensive management plan to the Task Force for approval which
 identifies those areas or activities within the State, other than those
 related to public facilities, for which technical and financial assistance
 is needed to eliminate or reduce the environmental, public health, and
 safety risks associated with aquatic nuisance species, particularly the
 zebra mussel; and
 `(B) a public facility management plan to the Assistant Secretary for
 approval which is limited solely to identifying those public facilities
 within the State for which technical and financial assistance is needed to
 reduce infestations of zebra mussels.
 `(2) CONTENT- Each plan shall, to the extent possible, identify the management
 practices and measures that will be undertaken to reduce infestations of
 aquatic nuisance species. Each plan shall--
 `(A) identify and describe State and local programs for environmentally
 sound prevention and control of the target aquatic nuisance species;
 `(B) identify Federal activities that may be needed for environmentally
 sound prevention and control of aquatic nuisance species and a description
 of the manner in which those activities should be coordinated with State
 and local government activities; and
 `(C) a schedule of implementing the plan, including a schedule of annual
 objectives.
 `(3) Consultation-
 `(A) In developing and implementing a management plan, the State should,
 to the maximum extent practicable, involve local governments and regional
 entities, and public and private organizations that have expertise in the
 control of aquatic nuisance species.
 `(B) Upon the request of a State, the Task Force or the Assistant Secretary,
 as appropriate under paragraph (1), may provide technical assistance in
 developing and implementing a management plan.
 `(4) PLAN APPROVAL- Within 90 days after the submission of a management
 plan, the Task Force or the Assistant Secretary in consultation with the
 Task Force, as appropriate under paragraph (1), shall review the proposed
 plan and approve it if it meets the requirements of this subsection or
 return the plan to the Governor with recommended modifications.
 `(b) Grant Program-
 `(1) STATE GRANTS- The Director or the Assistant Secretary, as appropriate
 under subsection (a), may, at the recommendation of the Task Force, make
 grants to States with approved management plans for the implementation of
 those plans.
 `(2) APPLICATION- An application for a grant under this subsection shall
 include an identification and description of the best management practices
 and measures which the State proposes to utilize in implementing an approved
 management plan with any Federal assistance to be provided under the grant.
 `(3) FEDERAL SHARE-
 `(A) The Federal share of the cost of each comprehensive management plan
 implemented with Federal assistance under this section in any fiscal year
 shall not exceed 75 percent of the cost incurred by the State in implementing
 such management program and the non-Federal share of such costs shall be
 provided from non-Federal sources.
 `(B) The Federal share of the cost of each public facility management plan
 implemented with Federal assistance under this section in any fiscal year
 shall not exceed 50 percent of the cost incurred by the State in implementing
 such management program and the non-Federal share of such costs shall be
 provided from non-Federal sources.
 `(4) ADMINISRATIVE COSTS- For the purposes of this section, administrative
 costs for activities and programs carried out with a grant in any fiscal
 year shall not exceed 5 percent of the amount of the grant in that year.
 `(5) IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS- In addition to cash outlays and payments,
 in-kind contributions of property or personnel services by non-Federal
 interests for activities under this section may be used for the non-Federal
 share of the cost of those activities.
`SEC. 1205. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
 `All actions taken by Federal agencies in implementing the provisions of
 section 1202 shall be consistent with all applicable Federal, State, and
 local environmental laws. Nothing in this title shall affect the authority
 of any State or political subdivision thereof to adopt or enforce control
 measures for aquatic nuisance species, or diminish or affect the jurisdiction
 of any State over species of fish and wildlife. Compliance with the control
 and eradication measures of any State or political subdivision thereof
 regarding aquatic nuisance species shall not relieve any person of the
 obligation to comply with the provisions of this subtitle.
`SEC. 1206. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.
 `(a) ADVICE- The Task Force shall provide timely advice to the Secretary
 of State concerning aquatic nuisance species that infest waters shared with
 other countries.
 `(b) NEGOTIATIONS- The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Task
 Force, is encouraged to initiate negotiations with the governments of
 foreign countries concerning the planning and implementation of prevention,
 monitoring, research, education, and control programs related to aquatic
 nuisance species  infesting shared water resources.
`SEC. 1207. INTENTIONAL INTRODUCTIONS POLICY REVIEW.
 `Within one year of the date of enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall,
 in consultation with State fish and wildlife agencies, other regional, State
 and local entities, potentially affected industries and other interested
 parties, identify and evaluate approaches for reducing the risk of adverse
 consequences associated with intentional introduction of aquatic organisms
 and submit a report of their findings, conclusions and recommendations to
 the appropriate Committees.
`SEC. 1208. INJURIOUS SPECIES.
 `Section 42(a) of title  18, United States Code is amended by inserting
 `of the zebra mussel of the species Dreissena polymorpha;' after `Pteropus;'.
`SEC. 1209. BROWN TREE SNAKE CONTROL PROGRAM.
 `The Task Force shall, within the program developed under subsection (a),
 undertake a comprehensive, environmentally sound program in coordination
 with regional, territorial,  State and local entities to control the brown
 tree snake  (Boiga irregularis) in Guam and other areas where the species
 is  established outside of its historic range.
`Subtitle D--Authorizations of Appropriation
`SEC.  1301. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 `(a) PREVENTION OF UNINTENTIONAL INTRODUCTIONS- There are authorized to be
 appropriated to develop and implement the provisions of subtitle B--
 `(1) $500,000 until the end of fiscal year 1992 to the Secretary to carry
 out sections 1101 and 1102(a)(3);
 `(2) $2,000,000 until the end of fiscal year 1992 to the Director and
 Under Secretary to carry out the studies under sections 1102(a)(1) and
 1102(a)(2; and
 `(3) $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995 to the
 Secretary for implementation and enforcement of the regulations promulgated
 under section 1101.
 `(b) TASK FORCE AND AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES PROGRAM- There are authorized
 to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and
 1995 to develop and implement the provisions of subtitle C--
 `(1) $7,000,000 to the Director to carry out sections 1202 and 1209;
 `(2) $5,000,000 to the Under Secretary to carry out section 1202;
 `(3) $1,125,000 to fund aquatic nuisance species prevention and control
 research under section 1202(i) at the Great Lakes Environmental Research
 Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
 `(4) $5,000,000 for competitive grants for university research on aquatic
 nuisance species under section 1202(f)(3) as follows:
 `(A) $3,375,000 to   fund grants under section 206 of the National Sea
 Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1125), and of this amount, $2,500,000
 to fund grants in the Great Lakes region; and
 `(B) $1,675,000 to fund grants through the Cooperative Fisheries and Wildlife
 Research Unit Program of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
 `(5) $500,000 to fund Sea Grant Marine Advisory Services education and
 technical assistance related to infestations of zebra mussels under sections
 1202(g) and (h);
 `(6) $200,000 to fund aquatic nuisance species prevention and control
 activities of the Great Lakes Commission; and
 `(7) $2,000,000 to the Assistant Secretary to carry out section 1202(i)(2).
 `(c) GRANTS FOR STATE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS- There are authorized to be
 appropriated for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995 to
 make grants under section 1204--
 `(1) $2,500,000 to the Director; and
 `(2) $5,000,000 to the Assistant Secretary.
 `(d) INTENTIONAL INTRODUCTIONS POLICY REVIEW- There are authorized to be
 appropriated for fiscal year 1991, $500,000 to the Director and the Under
 Secretary to conduct the intentional introduction policy review under
 section 1207.
`Subtitle E--Cooperative Environmental Analyses
`SEC. 1401. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSES.
 `The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Council on Environmental
 Quality, is encouraged to enter into negotiations  with the governments of
 Canada and Mexico to provide for reciprocal cooperative environmental impact
 analysis of major Federal actions which have significant transboundary
 effects on the quality of the human environment in the United States,
 Canada, and Mexico.
`TITLE II--GREAT LAKES FISH AND WILDLIFE RESTORATION
SECTION 2001. SHORT TITLE.
 `This title may be cited as the `Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration
 Act of 1990'.
`SEC. 2002. FINDINGS.
 `The Congress finds and declares the following:
 `(1) As the human population of the Great Lakes Basin has expanded to over
 35,000,000 people,  great demands have been placed on the lakes for use
 for boating and  other recreation, navigation, municipal and industrial
 water supply, waste disposal, power production, and other purposes. These
 growing and often conflicting demands exert pressure on the fish and wildlife
 resources  of the Great Lakes Basin, including in the form of contaminants,
 invasion by nonindigenous species, habitat degradation and destruction,
 legal and illegal fishery resource harvest levels, and sea lamprey predation.
 `(2) The fishery resources of the Great Lakes support recreational fisheries
 enjoyed by more than 5,000,000 people annually and commercial fisheries
 providing approximately 9,000 jobs. Together, these fisheries generate
 economic activity worth more than $4,400,000,000 annually to the United
 States.
 `(3) The availability of a suitable forage base is essential to lake trout,
 walleye, yellow perch, and other recreational and commercially valuable
 fishery resources of the Great Lakes Basin. Protecting and restoring
 productive fish habitat, including by protecting water quality, is essential
 to the successful recovery of Great Lakes Basin fishery resources.
 `(4) The Great Lakes Basin contains important breeding and migration habitat
 for all types of migratory birds. Many migratory bird species dependent on
 deteriorating Great Lakes Basin  habitat have suffered serious population
 declines in recent years.
 `(5) Over 80 percent of the original wetlands in the Great Lakes Basin have
 been destroyed and such losses continue at a rate of 20,000  acres annually.
 `(6) Contaminant burdens in the fish and wildlife resources of the Great
 Lakes Basin are substantial and the impacts of those contaminants on
 the life functions of important fish and wildlife resources are poorly
 understood. Concern over the effects of those contaminants on human health
 have resulted in numerous public health advisories recommending restricted
 or no consumption of Great Lakes fish.
 `(7) The lower Great Lakes are uniquely different from the upper
 Great Lakes biologically, physically, and in the degree of human use
 and shoreline development, and special fishery resource assessments and
 management activities are necessary to respond effectively to these special
 circumstances.
`SEC. 2003. PURPOSE.
 `The purposes of this Act are--
 `(1) to carry out a comprehensive study of the status, and the assessment,
 management, and restoration needs, of the fishery resources of the Great
 Lakes Basin;
 `(2) to develop  proposals to implement recommendations  resulting from
 that study; and
 `(3) to provide assistance to the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission, States,
 Indian Tribes, and other interested entities to encourage cooperative
 conservation, restoration and management of the fish and wildlife resources
 and their habitat of the Great Lakes Basin.
`SEC. 2004. DEFINITIONS.
 `In this Act--
 `(1) the term `Administrator' means the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency;
 `(2) the term `Director' means the Director of the United States Fish and
 Wildlife Service;
 `(3) the term `fish stock' means--
 `(A) a taxonomically distinct species or subspecies of fish; or
 `(B) any other aggregation of fish that are geographically, ecologically,
 behaviorally, or otherwise limited from breeding with individuals from
 other groups of fish and are capable of management as a unit;
 `(4) the term `Great Lakes Basin' means the air, land, water, and living
 organisms within the drainage basin of the Saint Lawrence River at or upstream
 from the point at which the river becomes the international boundary between
 Canada and the United States;
 `(5) the term `Indian Tribe' means any Indian tribe, band, village, nation,
 or other organized group or community that  is recognized by the Bureau of
 Indian Affairs as eligible for the special programs and services provided
 by the United States to Indians because of their status as  Indians;
 `(6) the term `lower Great Lakes' means the region in which is located that
 portion of the Great Lakes Basin which is downstream from the confluence
 of the Saint Clair River and Lake Huron near Port Huron, Michigan;
 `(7) the term `upper Great Lakes' means that portion of the Great Lakes
 Basin which is upstream from the confluence of the Saint Clair River and
 Lake Huron near Port Huron, Michigan.
 `(8) the term `nonindigenous species' means a species of plant or animal
 that did not occur in the  Great Lake Basin before European colonization
 of North America;
 `(9) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Army; and
 `(10) the term `State Director' means the head of the agency, department,
 board, commission, or other governmental entity of each of the States of
 New York, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and the
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania which is responsible for the management and
 conservation of the fish and wildlife resources of that State.
`SEC. 2005. GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES RESTORATION STUDY.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall conduct a comprehensive study of the
 status of, and the assessment, management, and restoration needs of, the
 fishery resources of the Great Lakes Basin and shall provide the opportunity
 for the Secretary, the Administrator, State Directors, Indian Tribes, the
 Great Lakes Fishery Commission, appropriate Canadian Government entities,
 and other appropriate entities to participate in the study. The Director
 shall complete the study by October 1, 1994.
 `(b) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- To provide opportunities for the full
 participation of all  affected entities in the planning and conduct of the
 study, the Director shall invite the entities identified in subsection  (a)
 to enter into a memorandum of understanding regarding the scope and focus
 of the study and the responsibilities of each participant for conducting
 the study.
 `(c) CONTENT OF STUDY- A study under this section shall include, but not
 be limited to--
 `(1) identifying and describing the component drainages of the Great Lakes
 Basin (including the drainage for each of the Great Lakes), analyzing how
 the characteristics and current or expected land and water uses of those
 drainages have affected, and can be expected to affect in the future,
 the fishery resources and fish habitats of the Great Lakes Basin;
 `(2) analyzing historical fishery resource data for the Great Lakes Basin to
 identify the causes of past and continuing declines of the fishery resources
 and the impediments to restoring those resources;
 `(3) evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness, and consistency of current
 Great Lakes interagency fisheries management plans and Federal and State
 water quality programs, with respect to their effects on  Great Lakes
 fishery resources;
 `(4) analyzing the impacts of, and management control alternatives for,
 recently introduced nonindigenous species, including the zebra mussel,
 the ruffe, and the spiny water flea in accordance with the Aquatic Nuisance
 Prevention and Control Act of 1990;
 `(5) developing recommendations regarding--
 `(A) an action plan to analyze the effects of contaminant levels on fishery
 resources;
 `(B) an action plan for the cooperative restoration and enhancement of
 depleted, nationally significant fish stocks, including lake trout, yellow
 perch, lake sturgeon, walleye, forage fish, and Atlantic salmon;
 `(C) planning and technical assistance that should be provided to the
 Great Lakes Fisheries Commission, States, and Indian Tribes to assist their
 fishery resource restoration efforts;
 `(D) mitigation measures to restore and enhance fishery resources adversely
 affected by past Federal (including federally assisted or approved) water
 resource development projects and other activities;
 `(E)  increasing the involvement of the International Joint Commission,
 the Great Lakes Commission, the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and other
 interjurisdictional entities regarding fishery resources protection,
 restoration, and enhancement;
 `(F) research projects and data gathering initiatives regarding population
 trends of fish stocks, including population abundance and structure,
 interspecific competition, survival rates, and behavioral patterns;
 `(G) important fishery resource habitat and other areas that should be
 protected, restored, or enhanced for the benefit of Great Lakes fishery
 resources;
 `(H) how private conservation organizations, recreational and commercial
 fishing interests, the aquaculture industry, and the general public could
 contribute to the implementation of the fishery resource restoration and
 enhancement recommendations developed pursuant to this Act; and
 `(I) appropriate contributions that should be made by States and other
 non-Federal entities to the cost of activities undertaken to implement the
 recommendations, including a description of--
 `(i) the activities that shall be cost-shared;
 `(ii) the entities or individuals which shall share the costs of those
 activities;
 `(iii) the proportion of appropriate project and activity costs that shall
 be borne by non-Federal interests; and
 `(iv) how the entities or individuals who share costs should finance their
 contribution.
 `(d) PROPOSALS FOR IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS- The Director shall develop
 proposals for implementing the recommendations of the study developed under
 subsection (c)(5). The proposals shall be consistent with the goals of
 the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement, as revised in 1987, the 1954 Great
 lakes Fisheries Convention, State and tribal fishery management jurisdiction,
 and the 1980 Joint Strategic Plan for the management of Great Lakes fishery
 resources.
`SEC. 2006. GOALS OF UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE PROGRAMS RELATED
TO GREAT LAKES FISH AND WILDLIFE RESOURCES.
 `In administering programs of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 related to the Great Lakes Basin, the Director shall seek to achieve the
 following goals:
 `(1) Restoring and maintaining self-sustaining fishery resource populations.
 `(2) Minimizing the impacts of contaminants on fishery and wildlife resources.
 `(3) Protecting, maintaining, and, where degraded and destroyed, restoring
 fish and wildlife habitat, including the enhancement and creation of wetlands
 that result in a net gain in the amount of those habitats.
 `(4) Stopping illegal activities adversely impacting fishery and wildlife
 resources.
 `(5) Restoring threatened and endangered species to viable, self-sustaining
 levels.
 `(6) Protecting, managing, and conserving migratory birds.
`SEC. 2007. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
 `(a) GREAT LAKES COORDINATION OFFICE- The Director shall establish a centrally
 located facility for the coordination of all United States Fish an Wildlife
 Service activities in the Great Lakes Basin, to be known as the `Great Lakes
 Coordination Office'. The functional responsibilities of the Great Lakes
 Coordination Office shall include intra- and interagency coordination,
 information distribution, and public awareness outreach. The Great Lakes
 Coordination Office shall include all administrative and technical support
 necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
 `(b) LOWER GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES OFFICE- The Director shall
 establish an office with necessary administrative and technical support
 services to carry out all United States Fish and Wildlife Service operational
 activities related to fishery resource protection, restoration, maintenance,
 and enhancement in the Lower Great Lakes. The office shall be known as the
 `Lower Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office', and shall be centrally located
 in the lower Great Lakes so as to facilitate fishery resource restoration
 and enhancement activities relating to the lower Great Lakes.
 `(c) UPPER GREAT LAKES FISHERY RESOURCES OFFICES- The Director shall
 establish one or more offices with necessary administrative and technical
 support services to carry out United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 operational activities related to fishery resource protection, restoration,
 maintenance, and enhancement in the upper Great Lakes. Each of the offices
 shall be known as an `Upper Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office', and shall
 be appropriately located so as to facilitate fishery resource activities
 in the upper Great Lakes.
`SEC. 2008. ANNUAL REPORTS.
 `Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and
 annually thereafter, the Director shall submit a report to the Committee
 on Merchant Marine and fisheries of the House of Representatives  and the
 Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate. Each such report
 shall describe--
 `(1) the progress and findings of the studies conducted under section 2005,
 including recommendations of implementing activities, where appropriate,
 that would contribute to the restoration or improvement of one or more fish
 stocks of the Great Lakes Basin; and
 `(2) activities undertaken to accomplish the goals stated in section 2006.
`SEC. 2009. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director--
 `(1) for conducting a study under section 2005 not more than $4,000,000
 for each of fiscal years 1991 through 1994;
 `(2) to establish and operate the Great Lakes Coordination Office under
 section 2008(a) and Upper Great Lakes Fishery Resources Offices under
 section 2008(c), not more than $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991
 through 1995; and
 `(3) to establish and operate the Lower Great Lakes Fishery Resources
 Offices under section 2008(b), not more than $2,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1991 through 1995.
 `(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out
 this Act, not more than $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1991 through
 1995.'.
TITLE III--WETLANDS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and
 Restoration Act'.
SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this title, the term--
 (1) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Army;
 (2) `Administrator' means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
 Agency;
 (3) `development activities' means any activity, including the discharge of
 dredged or fill material, which results directly in a more than de minimus
 change in the hydrologic regime, bottom contour, or the type, distribution
 or diversity of hydrophytic vegetation, or which impairs the flow, reach,
 or circulation of surface water within wetlands or other waters;
 (4) `State' means the State of Louisiana;
 (5) `coastal State' means a State of the United States in, or bordering
 on, the Atlantic, Pacific, or Arctic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, Long Island
 Sound, or one or more of the Great Lakes; for the purposes of this title, the
 term also includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth
 of the Northern Mariana Islands, and  the Trust Territories of the Pacific
 Islands, and American Samoa;
 (6) `coastal wetlands restoration project' means any technically feasible
 activity to create, restore, protect, or enhance coastal wetlands through
 sediment and freshwater diversion, water management, or other measures
 that the Task Force finds will significantly contribute to the long-term
 restoration or protection of the physical, chemical and biological integrity
 of coastal wetlands in the State of Louisiana, and includes any such activity
 authorized under this title or under any other provision of law, including,
 but not limited to, new projects, completion or expansion of existing or
 on-going projects, individual phases, portions, or components of  projects
 and operation, maintanence and rehabilitation of completed projects; the
 primary purpose of a `coastal wetlands restoration project' shall not be
 to provide navigation, irrigation or flood control benefits;
 (7) `coastal wetlands conservation project' means--
 (A) the  obtaining of a real property interest in coastal lands or waters,
 if the obtaining of such interest is subject to terms and conditions that
 will ensure that the real property will be administered for the long-term
 conservation of such lands and waters and the hydrology, water quality and
 fish and wildlife dependent thereon; and
 (B) the restoration, management, or enhancement of coastal wetlands ecosystems
 if  such restoration, management, or enhancement is conducted on coastal
 lands and waters that are administered for the long-term conservation of
 such lands and waters and the hydrology, water quality and fish and wildlife
 dependent thereon;
 (8) `Governor' means the Governor of Louisiana;
 (9) `Task Force' means the Louisiana Coastal Wetlands Conservation and
 Restoration Task Force which shall consist of the Secretary, who shall serve
 as chairman, the Administrator, the Governor, the Secretary of the Interior,
 the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary  of Commerce; and
 (10) `Director' means the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife
 Service.
SEC. 303. PRIORITY LOUISIANA COASTAL WETLANDS RESTORATION PROJECTS.
 (a) Priority Project List-
 (1) PREPARATION OF LIST- Within forty-five days after the date of enactment of
 this title, the Secretary shall convene the Task Force to initiate a process
 to identify and prepare a list of coastal wetlands restoration projects in
 Louisiana to provide for the long-term conservation of such wetlands and
 dependent fish and wildlife populations in order of priority, based on the
 cost-effectiveness of such projects in creating, restoring, protecting, or
 enhancing coastal wetlands, taking into account the quality of such coastal
 wetlands, with due allowance for small-scale projects necessary to demonstrate
 the use of new techniques or materials for coastal wetlands restoration.
 (2) TASK FORCE PROCEDURES- The Secretary shall convene meetings of the Task
 Force as appropriate to ensure that the list is produced and transmitted
 annually to the Congress as required by this subsection. If necessary to
 ensure transmittal of the list on a timely basis, the Task Force shall produce
 the list by a majority vote of those Task Force members who are present and
 voting; except that no coastal wetlands restoration project shall be placed
 on the list without the concurrence of the lead Task Force member that the
 project is cost effective and sound from an engineering perspective. Those
 projects which potentially impact navigation or flood control on the lower
 Mississippi River System shall be constructed consistent with section 304
 of this Act.
 (3) TRANSMITTAL OF LIST- No later than one year after the date of enactment
 of this title, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress the list of
 priority coastal wetlands restoration projects required by paragraph (1)
 of this subsection. Thereafter, the list shall be updated annually by
 the Task Force members and transmitted by the Secretary to the Congress
 as part of the President's annual budget submission. Annual transmittals
 of the list to the Congress shall include a status report on each project
 and a statement from the Secretary of the Treasury indicating the amounts
 available for expenditure to carry out this title.
 (4) List of contents-
 (A) AREA IDENTIFICATION; PROJECT DESCRIPTION- The list of priority coastal
 wetlands restoration projects shall include, but not be limited to--
 (i) identification, by map or other means, of the coastal area to be covered
 by the coastal wetlands restoration project; and
 (ii) a detailed description of each proposed coastal wetlands restoration
 project including a justification for including such project on the list,
 the proposed activities to be carried out pursuant to each coastal wetlands
 restoration project, the benefits to be realized by such project, the
 identification of the lead Task Force member to undertake each proposed
 coastal wetlands restoration project and the responsibilities of each other
 participating Task Force  member, an estimated timetable for the completion
 of each coastal wetlands restoration project, and the estimated cost of
 each project.
 (B) PRE-PLAN- Prior to the date on which the plan required by subsection (b)
 of this section becomes effective, such list shall include only those coastal
 wetlands restoration projects that can be substantially completed during
 a five-year  period commencing on the date the project is placed on the list.
 (C) Subsequent to the date on which the plan required by subsection (b) of
 this section becomes effective, such list shall include only those coastal
 wetlands restoration projects that have been identified in such plan.
 (5) FUNDING- The Secretary shall, with the  funds made available in accordance
 with section 306 of this title, allocate funds among the members of the
 Task Force based on the need for such funds and such other factors as the
 Task Force deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
 (b) Federal and State Project Planning-
 (1) PLAN PREPARATION- The Task Force shall prepare a plan to identify
 coastal wetlands restoration projects, in order of priority, based on the
 cost-effectiveness of such projects in creating, restoring, protecting,
 or enhancing the long-term conservation  of coastal wetlands, taking into
 account  the quality of such coastal wetlands, with due allowance for
 small-scale projects necessary to demonstrate the use of new techniques or
 materials for coastal wetlands restoration. Such restoration plan shall be
 completed within three years from the date of enactment of this title.
 (2) PURPOSE OF THE PLAN- The purpose of the restoration plan is to develop a
 comprehensive approach to restore and prevent the loss of, coastal wetlands
 in Louisiana. Such plan shall coordinate and integrate coastal wetlands
 restoration projects in a manner that will ensure the long-term conservation
 of the coastal wetlands of Louisiana.
 (3) INTEGRATION OF EXISTING PLANS- In developing the restoration plan,
 the Task Force shall seek to integrate the `Louisiana Comprehensive Coastal
 Wetlands Feasibility Study' conducted by the Secretary of the Army and the
 `Coastal Wetlands Conservation and Restoration Plan' prepared by the State
 of Louisiana's Wetlands Conservation and Restoration Task Force.
 (4) ELEMENTS OF THE PLAN- The restoration plan developed pursuant to this
 subsection shall include--
 (A) identification of the  entire area in the State that contains coastal
 wetlands;
 (B) identification, by map or other means, of coastal areas in Louisiana
 in need of coastal wetlands restoration projects;
 (C) identification of high priority coastal wetlands restoration  projects
 in Louisiana needed to address the areas identified in subparagraph (B)
 and that would provide for the long-term conservation of restored wetlands
 and dependent fish and wildlife populations;
 (D) a listing of such coastal wetlands restoration projects, in order of
 priority, to be submitted annually, incorporating any project identified
 previously in lists produced and submitted under subsection (a) of this
 section;
 (E) a detailed description of each proposed coastal wetlands restoration
 project, including a justification for including such project on the list;
 (F) the proposed activities to be carried out pursuant to each coastal
 wetlands restoration project;
 (G) the benefits to be realized by each such project;
 (H) an  estimated timetable for completion of each coastal wetlands
 restoration project;
 (I) an estimate of the cost of each coastal wetlands restoration project;
 (J) identification of a lead Task Force member to undertake each proposed
 coastal wetlands restoration project listed in the plan;
 (K) consultation with the public and provision for public review during
 development of the plan; and
 (L) evaluation of the effectiveness of each coastal wetlands restoration
 project  in achieving long-term solutions to arresting coastal wetlands
 loss in Louisiana.
 (5) PLAN MODIFICATION- The Task Force may modify the restoration plan from
 time to time as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
 (6) PLAN SUBMISSION- Upon completion of the restoration plan, the Secretary
 shall submit the plan to the Congress. The restoration plan shall become
 effective ninety days after the date of its submission to the Congress.
 (7) PLAN EVALUATION- Not less than three years after the completion and
 submission of the restoration plan required by this subsection and at
 least every three years thereafter, the Task Force shall provide a report
 to the Congress containing a scientific evaluation of the effectiveness of
 the coastal wetlands  restoration projects carried out under the plan in
 creating, restoring, protecting and enhancing coastal wetlands in Louisiana.
 (c) COASTAL WETLANDS RESTORATION PROJECT BENEFITS- Where such a determination
 is required under applicable law, the net ecological, aesthetic, and cultural
 benefits, together with the economic benefits, shall be deemed to exceed
 the costs of any coastal wetlands restoration project within the State which
 the Task Force finds to contribute significantly to wetlands restoration.
 (d) CONSISTENCY- (1) In implementing, maintaining, modifying, or
 rehabilitating navigation, flood control or irrigation projects, other than
 emergency actions, under other authorities, the Secretary, in consultation
 with the Director and the Administrator, shall ensure that such actions are
 consistent with the purposes of the restoration plan submitted pursuant to
 this section.
 (2) At the request of the Governor of the State of Louisiana, the Secretary
 of Commerce shall approve the plan as an amendment to the State's coastal
 zone management program approved under section 306 of the Coastal Zone
 Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455).
 (e) FUNDING OF WETLANDS RESTORATION PROJECTS- The Secretary shall, with
 the funds made available in accordance with this title, allocate such funds
 among the members of the Task Force to carry out coastal wetlands restoration
 projects in accordance with the priorities set forth in the list transmitted
 in accordance with this section. The Secretary shall not fund a coastal
 wetlands restoration project unless that project is subject to such terms and
 conditions as necessary to ensure that wetlands restored, enhanced or managed
 through that project will be administered for the long-term conservation
 of such lands and waters and dependent fish and wildlife populations.
 (f) COST-SHARING-
 (1) FEDERAL SHARE- Amounts made available in accordance with section 306
 of this title to carry out coastal wetlands restoration projects under this
 title shall provide 75 percent of the cost of such projects.
 (2) FEDERAL SHARE UPON CONSERVATION PLAN APPROVAL- Notwithstanding the
 previous paragraph, if the State develops a Coastal Wetlands Conservation
 Plan pursuant to this title, and such conservation plan is approved pursuant
 to section 304 of this title, amounts made available in accordance with
 section 306 of this title for any coastal wetlands restoration project under
 this section shall be 85 percent of the cost of the project. In the event
 that the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator jointly determine
 that the State is not taking reasonable steps to implement and administer
 a conservation plan developed and approved pursuant to this title, amounts
 made available in accordance with section 306 of this title for any coastal
 wetlands restoration project shall revert to 75 percent of the cost of the
 project: Provided, however, that such reversion to the lower cost share
 level shall not occur until the Governor has been provided notice of,
 and opportunity for hearing on, any such determination by the  Secretary,
 the Director, and Administrator, and the State has been given ninety days
 from such notice or hearing to take corrective action.
 (3) FORM OF STATE SHARE- The share of the cost required of the State shall
 be from a non-Federal source. Such State share shall consist of a cash
 contribution of not less than 5 percent of the cost of the project. The
 balance of such State share may take the form of lands, easements, or
 right-of-way, or any other form of in-kind contribution  determined to be
 appropriate by the lead Task Force member.
 (4) Paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection shall not affect the
 existing cost-sharing agreements for the following projects: Caernarvon
 Freshwater Diversion, Davis Pond Freshwater Diversion, and Bonnet Carre
 Freshwater Diversion.
SEC. 304. LOUISIANA COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION PLANNING.
 (a) DEVELOPMENT OF CONSERVATION PLAN-
 (1) AGREEMENT- The Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator are
 directed to enter into an agreement with the Governor, as set forth in
 paragraph (2) of this subsection, upon notification of the Governor's
 willingness to enter into such agreement.
 (2) TERMS OF AGREEMENT-
 (A) Upon receiving notification pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection,
 the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator shall promptly enter into
 an agreement (hereafter in this section referred to as the `agreement')  with
 the State under the terms set forth in subparagraph (B)  of this paragraph.
 (B) The agreement shall--
 (i) set forth a process by which the State agrees to develop, in accordance
 with this section, a coastal wetlands  conservation plan (hereafter in this
 section referred to as the `conservation plan');
 (ii) designate a single agency of the State to develop the conservation plan;
 (iii) assure an opportunity for participation in the development of the
 conservation plan, during the planning period, by the public and by Federal
 and State agencies;
 (iv) obligate the State, not later than three years after the date of
 signing the agreement, unless extended by the parties thereto, to submit
 the conservation plan to the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator
 for their approval; and
 (v) upon approval of the conservation plan, obligate the State to implement
 the conservation plan.
 (3) GRANTS AND ASSISTANCE- Upon the date of signing the agreement--
 (A) the Administrator shall, in consultation with the Director, with the
 funds made available in accordance with section 306 of this title, make
 grants  during the development of the conservation plan to assist the
 designated State agency in developing such plan. Such grants shall not
 exceed 75 percent of the cost of developing the plan; and
 (B) the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator shall provide
 technical assistance to the State to assist it in the development of the plan.
 (b) CONSERVATION PLAN GOAL- If a conservation plan is developed pursuant
 to this section, it shall have a goal of achieving no net loss of wetlands
 in the coastal areas of Louisiana as a result of development activities
 initiated subsequent to approval of the plan, exclusive of any wetlands
 gains achieved through implementation of the preceding section of this title.
 (c) ELEMENTS OF CONSERVATION PLAN- The conservation plan authorized by this
 section shall include--
 (1) identification of the entire coastal area in the State that contains
 coastal wetlands;
 (2) designation of a single State agency with the responsibility for
 implementing and enforcing the plan;
 (3) identification of measures that the State shall take in addition to
 existing Federal authority to achieve a goal of no net loss of wetlands
 as a result of development activities, exclusive of any wetlands gains
 achieved through implementation of the preceding section of this title;
 (4) a system that the State shall implement to account for gains and losses of
 coastal wetlands within coastal areas for purposes of evaluating the degree
 to which the goal of no net loss of wetlands as a result of development
 activities in such wetlands or other waters has been attained;
 (5) satisfactory assurances that the State will have adequate personnel,
 funding, and authority to implement the plan;
 (6) a program to be carried out by the State for the purpose of  educating
 the public concerning the necessity to conserve wetlands;
 (7) a program to encourage the use of technology by persons engaged in
 development activities that will result in negligible impact on wetlands; and
 (8) a program for the review, evaluation, and identification of regulatory
 and nonregulatory options  that will be adopted by the State to encourage
 and assist private owners of wetlands to continue to maintain those  lands
 as wetlands.
 (d) APPROVAL OF CONSERVATION PLAN-
 (1) IN GENERAL- If the Governor submits a conservation plan to the Secretary,
 the Director, and the Administrator for their approval, the Secretary,
 the Director, and the Administrator shall, within one hundred and  eighty
 days following receipt of such  plan, approve or disapprove it.
 (2) APPROVAL  CRITERIA- The Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator
 shall approve  a conservation plan submitted by the Governor, if they
 determine that--
 (A) the   State has adequate authority to fully implement all provisions
 of such a plan;
 (B) such a plan is adequate to attain the goal of no net loss of coastal
 wetlands as a result of development activities and complies with the other
 requirements of this section; and
 (C) the  plan was developed in accordance with terms of the agreement set
 forth in subsection (a) of this section.
 (e) Modification of Conservation Plan-
 (1) NONCOMPLIANCE- If the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator
 determine that a conservation plan submitted by the Governor does not comply
 with the requirements of subsection (d) of this section, they shall submit
 to the Governor a statement explaining why the plan is not in compliance
 and how the plan should be changed to be in compliance.
 (2) RECONSIDERATION- If the Governor submits a modified conservation plan to
 the Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator for their reconsideration,
 the Secretary, the Director, and Administrator shall have ninety days to
 determine whether the modifications are sufficient to bring the plan into
 compliance with requirements of subsection (d) of this section.
 (3) APPROVAL OF MODIFIED PLAN- If the Secretary, the Director, and the
 Administrator fail to approve or disapprove the conservation plan, as
 modified, within the ninety-day period following the date on which it was
 submitted to them by the Governor, such plan, as modified, shall be deemed
 to be approved effective upon the expiration of such ninety-day period.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO CONSERVATION PLAN- If the Governor amends the conservation
 plan approved under this section, any such amended plan shall be considered
 a new plan and shall be subject to the requirements of this section; except
 that minor changes to such plan shall not be subject to the requirements
 of this section.
 (g) IMPLEMENTATION OF CONSERVATION PLAN- A conservation plan approved under
 this section shall be implemented as provided therein.
 (h) Federal Oversight-
 (1) INITIAL  REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within one hundred and eighty days after
 entering into the agreement required under subsection (a) of this section, the
 Secretary, the Director, and the Administrator shall report to the Congress
 as to the status of a conservation plan approved under this section and the
 progress of the State in carrying out such a plan, including and accounting,
 as required under subsection (c) of this section, of the gains and losses
 of coastal wetlands as a result of development activities.
 (2) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Twenty-four months after the initial one hundred
 and eighty day period set forth in paragraph (1), and at the end of each
 twenty-four-month period thereafter, the Secretary, the   Director, and
 the Administrator shall, report  to the Congress on the status of the
 conservation plan and provide an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
 plan in meeting the goal of this section.
SEC. 305 NATIONAL COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION GRANTS.
 (a) MATCHING GRANTS- The  Director shall, with the funds made available in
 accordance with the next following section of this title, make matching
 grants to any coastal State to carry out coastal wetlands conservation
 projects  from funds made available for that purpose.
 (b) PRIORITY- Subject to the cost-sharing requirements of this section, the
 Director may grant or otherwise provide any matching moneys to any coastal
 State which submits a proposal substantial in character and design to carry
 out a coastal wetlands conservation project. In awarding such matching
 grants, the Director shall give priority to coastal wetlands conservation
 projects that are--
 (1) consistent with the National Wetlands Priority Conservation Plan
 developed under section 301 of the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act (16
 U.S.C. 3921); and
 (2) in coastal States that have established dedicated funding for programs
 to acquire coastal wetlands, natural areas and open spaces. In addition,
 priority consideration shall be given to coastal wetlands conservation
 projects in maritime forests on coastal barrier islands.
 (c) CONDITIONS- The Director may only grant or otherwise provide matching
 moneys to a coastal State for purposes of carrying out a coastal wetlands
 conservation project if the grant or provision is subject to terms and
 conditions that will ensure that any real property interest acquired in
 whole or in part, or enhanced, managed, or restored with such moneys will
 be administered for the long-term conservation of such lands and waters
 and the fish and wildlife dependent thereon.
 (d) Cost-Sharing-
 (1) FEDERAL SHARE- Grants to coastal States of matching moneys by the Director
 for any fiscal year to carry out coastal wetlands conservation projects shall
 be used for the payment of not to exceed 50  percent of the total costs of
 such projects: except that such matching moneys may be used for payment of
 not to exceed 75 percent of the costs of such projects if a coastal State
 has established a trust fund, from which the principal is not spent, for
 the purpose of acquiring coastal wetlands, other natural area or open spaces.
 (2) FORM OF STATE SHARE- The matching moneys required of a coastal State
 to carry out a coastal wetlands conservation project shall be derived from
 a non-Federal source.
 (3) IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS- In addition to cash outlays and payments, in-kind
 contributions of property or personnel services by non-Federal interests
 for activities under this section may  be used for the non-Federal share
 of the cost of those activities.
 (e) Partial Payments-
 (1) The Director may from time to time make matching payments to carry out
 coastal wetlands conservation projects as such projects progress, but such
 payments, including previous payments, if any, shall not be more than the
 Federal pro rata share of any such project  in conformity with subsection
 (d) of this section.
 (2) The Director may enter into agreements to make matching payments on an
 initial portion of a coastal wetlands conservation project and to agree to
 make payments on the remaining Federal share of the costs of such project
 from subsequent moneys if and when they become available. The liability of
 the United States under such an agreement is contingent upon the continued
 availability of funds for the purpose of this section.
 (f) WETLANDS ASSESSMENT- The Director shall, with the funds made available
 in accordance with the next following section of this title, direct the
 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's National Wetland Inventory to update and
 digitize wetlands maps in the State of Texas and to conduct an assessment
 of the status, condition, and trends of wetlands in that State.
SEC. 306. DISTRIBUTION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) PRIORITY PROJECT AND CONSERVATION PLANNING EXPENDITURES- Of the total
 amount appropriated during a given fiscal year to carry out this title,
 70 percent, not to exceed $70,000,000, shall be available, and shall remain
 available until expended, for the purposes of making expenditures--
 (1) not to exceed the aggregate amount of $5,000,000 annually to assist
 the Task Force in the preparation of the list required under this title
 and the plan required under this title, including preparation of--
 (A) preliminary assessments;
 (B) general or site-specific inventories;
 (C) reconnaissance, engineering or other studies;
 (D) preliminary design work; and
 (E) such other studies as may be necessary to identify and evaluate the
 feasibility of coastal wetland restoration projects;
 (2) to carry out coastal wetlands restoration projects in accordance with
 the priorities set forth on the list prepared under this title;
 (3) to carry out wetlands restoration projects in accordance with the
 priorities set forth in the restoration plan prepared under this title;
 (4) to make grants not to exceed $2,500,000 annually or $10,000,000 in total,
 to assist the agency designated by the State in development of the Coastal
 Wetlands Conservation Plan pursuant to this title.
 (b) COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION GRANTS- Of the total amount appropriated
 during a given fiscal year to carry out this title, 15 percent, not to exceed
 $15,000,000 shall be available, and shall remain available to the Director,
 for purposes of making grants--
 (1) to any coastal State, except States eligible to receive funding under
 section 306(a), to carry out coastal wetlands conservation projects in
 accordance with section 305 of this title; and
 (2) in the amount of $2,500,000 in total for an assessment of the status,
 condition, and trends of wetlands in the State of Texas.
 (c) NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION- Of the total amount appropriated
 during a given fiscal year to carry out this title, 15 percent, not to
 exceed $15,000,000, shall be available to, and shall remain available
 until expended by, the Secretary of the Interior for allocation to carry
 out wetlands conservation projects in any coastal State under section 8
 of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (Public Law 101-233, 103
 Stat. 1968, December 13, 1989).
SEC. 307. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 (a) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS- The Secretary is
 authorized to carry out projects for the protection, restoration, or
 enhancement of aquatic and associated ecosystems, including projects for the
 protection, restoration,  or creation of wetlands and coastal ecosystems. In
 carrying out such projects, the Secretary shall give such projects equal
 consideration with projects relating to irrigation, navigation, or flood
 control.
 (b) STUDY- The Secretary  is  hereby authorized and directed to study the
 feasibility of modifying the operation of existing navigation and flood
 control projects to allow for an increase in the share of the Mississippi
 River flows and sediment sent down the Atchafalaya River for purposes of
 land building and wetlands nourishment.
SEC. 308. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
 16 U.S.C. 777c is amended by adding the following after the first sentence:
 `The Secretary shall distribute 18 per centum of each annual appropriation
 made in accordance with the provisions of section 777b of this title as
 provided in the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and Restoration Act:
 Provided, That, notwithstanding the provisions of section 777b, such sums
 shall remain available to carry out such Act through fiscal year 1999.'.
`TITLE IV--GREAT LAKES OIL POLLUTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
`SEC. 4001. SHORT TITLE.
 `This  title may be cited as the `Great Lakes Oil Pollution Research and
 Development Act'.
`SEC. 4002. GREAT LAKES OIL POLLUTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 `Section 7001 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380) is
 amended as follows:
 `(1) GREAT LAKES DEMONSTRATION PROJECT- In subsection (c)(6), strike `3'
 and  insert `4', strike `and' after `California,', and insert `and (D)
 ports on the Great Lakes,' after `Louisiana,'.
 `(2) FUNDING- In subsection (f) strike `21,250,000' and insert `22,000,000'
 and in subsection (f)(2) strike `2,250,000' and insert  `3,000,000'.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.