 
--H.R.3696--
H.R.3696
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide survival assistance to victims of civil strife in Central America.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SURVIVAL ASSISTANCE.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- The Agency for International Development shall use
 unobligated funds made available pursuant to section 8(a) of Public Law
 100-276 to provide medical care and other relief for noncombatant victims
 of civil strife in Central America. Such assistance shall be used to make
 available prosthetic devices and rehabilitation, provide medicines and
 immunizations, assist burn victims, help orphans, and otherwise provide
 assistance for noncombatants who have been physically injured or displaced
 by civil strife in Central America. Priority shall be given to those with
 the greatest needs for assistance.
 (b) USE OF PVO'S AND INTERNATIONAL RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS- Assistance pursuant
 to this section shall be provided only through nonpolitical private and
 voluntary organizations and international relief organizations. Preference
 in the distribution of such assistance shall be given to organizations
 presently providing similar services such as Catholic Relief Services,
 the International Committee of the Red Cross, CARE, the United Nations
 Children's Fund, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Partners
 of the Americas, and the Pan American Health Organization.
 (c) ASSISTANCE IN NICARAGUA- Not more than one-half of the assistance
 provided under this section may be provided through nonpolitical private and
 voluntary organizations and international relief organizations operating
 inside Nicaragua. None of the assistance pursuant to this section may be
 provided to or through the Government of Nicaragua.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.