 
--H.R.2570--
H.R.2570
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the designation of certain public lands as wilderness in the
State of
Arizona.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE- Titles I through III of this Act may be cited as the
 `Arizona Desert Wilderness Act of 1990'.
TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU
OF LAND MANAGEMENT
SEC. 101. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.
 (a) DESIGNATION- In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, the
 following public lands are hereby designated as wilderness and therefore,
 as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
 (1) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 23,600 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Mount Wilson
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Mount
 Wilson Wilderness;
 (2) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 31,070 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Mount Tipton
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Mount
 Tipton Wilderness;
 (3) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 27,530 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Mount Nutt
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Mount
 Nutt Wilderness: Provided, That the existing water pipeline for the town
 of Oatman, together with the right of ingress and egress thereto, may be
 operated, maintained, and upgraded, subject to reasonable requirements to
 protect wilderness values;
 (4) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 90,600 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Warm Springs
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Warm
 Springs Wilderness;
 (5) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 15,900 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Aubrey Peak
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Aubrey
 Peak Wilderness;
 (6) certain lands in La Paz County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 14,630 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `East Cactus Plain
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the East
 Cactus Plain Wilderness;
 (7) certain lands in Mohave   and La Paz Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 41,600 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Rawhide
 Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Rawhide Mountains Wilderness;
 (8) certain lands in Mohave, Yavapai, and La Paz Counties, Arizona, which
 comprise approximately 126,760 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Arrastra Mountain Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be
 known as the Arrastra Mountain Wilderness;
 (9) certain lands in La Paz County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 25,287 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Harcuvar Mountains
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Harcuvar
 Mountains Wilderness;
 (10) certain lands in La Paz and Maricopa Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 22,865 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Harquahala Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall
 be known as the Harquahala Mountains Wilderness;
 (11) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 20,600  acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Big Horn Mountains
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Big
 Horn Mountains Wilderness;
 (12) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 30,170 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Hummingbird Springs
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the
 Hummingbird Springs Wilderness;
 (13) certain lands in La Paz, Yuma, and Maricopa Counties, Arizona, which
 comprise approximately 89,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Eagletail Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall
 be known as the Eagletail Mountains Wilderness;
 (14) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 15,250 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Signal Mountain
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Signal
 Mountains Wilderness;
 (15) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 61,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Woolsey Peak
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Woolsey
 Peak Wilderness;
 (16) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 14,500 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Sierra Estrella
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Sierra
 Estrella Wilderness;
 (17) certain lands in Maricopa and Pinal Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 34,400 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Table
 Top Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the
 Table Top Wilderness;
 (18) certain lands in Pima County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 5,080 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Coyote Mountains
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Coyote
 Mountains Wilderness;
 (19) certain lands in Pima County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 2,065 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Baboquivari Peak
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the
 Baboquivari Peak Wilderness;
 (20) certain lands in Gila County, Arizona, which comprise approximately 9,201
 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Needle's Eye Wilderness'
 and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Needle's Eye
 Wilderness: Provided, That the right-of-way reserved by right-of-way
 reservation A-16043 dated October 20, 1986, together with the right of
 ingress and egress thereto, shall not be affected by this Act, and the
 existing powerline utilizing such right-of-way may be operated, maintained,
 and upgraded, subject to reasonable requirements to protect wilderness values;
 (21) certain lands in Graham County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 6,590 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `North Santa Teresa
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the North
 Santa Teresa Wilderness;
 (22) certain lands in Graham County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 10,883 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Fishhooks Wilderness'
 and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Fishhooks Wilderness;
 (23) certain lands in Cochise County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 11,998 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Dos Cabezas Mountains
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Dos
 Cabezas Mountains Wilderness;
 (24) certain lands in Graham and Cochise Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 6,600 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Redfield
 Canyon Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Redfield Canyon  Wilderness;
 (25) certain lands in La Paz County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 18,805 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Gibraltar Mountain
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the
 Gibraltar Mountain Wilderness;
 (26) certain lands in La Paz and Mohave Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 15,755 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Swansea Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Swansea Wilderness;
 (27) certain lands in LaPaz County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 29,095 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Trigo Mountain
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Trigo
 Mountain Wilderness;
 (28) certain lands in Yuma County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 8,855 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Muggins Mountain
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Muggins
 Mountain Wilderness;
 (29) certain lands in Yavapai and Maricopa Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 9,200 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Hells
 Canyon Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Hells Canyon Wilderness;
 (30) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 63,600 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `North Maricopa
 Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the North Maricopa Mountains Wilderness;
 (31) certain lands in Maricopa County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 60,800 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `South Maricopa
 Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the South Maricopa Mountains Wilderness;
 (32) certain lands in Mohave County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 38,400 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Wabayuma Peak
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Wabayuma
 Peak Wilderness;
 (33) certain lands in Yavapai and Mohave Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 27,900 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Upper
 Burro Creek Wilderness' and dated June 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Upper Burro Creek Wilderness;
 (34) certain lands in Yavapai County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 11,840 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Hassayampa River
 Canyon Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Hassayampa River Canyon Wilderness;
 (35) certain lands in Pinal County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 5,800 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `White Canyon
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the White
 Canyon Wilderness;
 (36) certain lands in Yavapai County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 8,700 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Tres Alamos Wilderness'
 and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the Tres Alamos
 Wilderness;
 (37) certain lands in Cochise, Greenlee, and Graham Counties, Arizona,
 which comprise approximately 19,650 acres, as generally depicted on a
 map entitled `Peloncillo Mountains Wilderness' and dated February 1990,
 and which shall be known as the Peloncillo Mountains Wilderness;
 (38) certain lands in La Paz County, Arizona, which comprise approximately
 21,680 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `New Water Mountains
 Wilderness' and dated February 1990, and which shall be known as the New
 Water Mountains Wilderness;
 (39) certain lands in Pinal and Graham Counties, Arizona, which comprise
 approximately 12,711 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Aravaipa Wilderness Additions' and dated February 1990, and which are
 hereby incorporated in and shall be deemed to be a part of the Aravaipa
 Canyon Wilderness (designated in Public Law 98-406, 98 Stat. 1491).
 (b) MANAGEMENT- Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness areas
 designated by this title shall be administered by the Secretary of the
 Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Secretary')
 in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act governing areas
 designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any reference in such
 provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness Act (or any similar
 reference) shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of
 this Act.
 (c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION- As soon as practicable after enactment of this
 Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a legal description of each wilderness
 area designated under this title with the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and with the Committee
 on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. Such map and
 description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title,
 except that correction of clerical and typographical errors in such legal
 description and map may be made. Copies of such map and legal description
 shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the
 Director, Bureau of Land Management, United States Department of the Interior,
 and in the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management in Arizona.
 (d) NO BUFFER ZONES- The Congress does not intend for the designation of
 wilderness areas in the State of Arizona pursuant to this title to lead
 to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any such
 wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen
 or heard from areas within a wilderness shall not, of itself, preclude such
 activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
 (e) FISH AND WILDLIFE- As provided in paragraph (7) of section 4(d) of the
 Wilderness Act, nothing in this title or in the Wilderness Act shall be
 construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State
 of Arizona with respect to wildlife and fish on the public lands located
 in that State.
 (f) LIVESTOCK- (1) Grazing of livestock in wilderness areas designated
 by this title, where established prior to the date of the enactment of
 this Act, shall be administered in accordance with section 4(d)(4) of the
 Wilderness Act and the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the Report
 of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
 the One Hundred First Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
 (2) The Secretary is directed to review all policies, practices, and
 regulations of the Bureau of Land Management regarding livestock grazing
 in Bureau of Land Management administered wilderness areas in Arizona in
 order to insure that such policies, practices, and regulations fully conform
 with and implement the intent of Congress regarding grazing in such areas,
 as such intent is expressed in this title.
 (g) WATER- (1) With respect to each wilderness area designated by this
 title, Congress hereby reserves a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill
 the purposes of this title. The priority date of such reserved rights shall
 be the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) The Secretary and all other officers of the United States shall take
 steps necessary to protect the rights reserved by paragraph (1), including
 the filing by the Secretary of a claim for the quantification of such rights
 in any present or future appropriate stream adjudication in the courts of
 the State of Arizona in which the United States is or may be joined and
 which is conducted in accordance with the McCarran Amendment (43 U.S.C. 666).
 (3) Nothing in this title shall be construed as a relinquishment or reduction
 of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United States in the
 State of Arizona on or before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (4) The Federal water rights reserved by this title are specific to
 the wilderness areas located in the State of Arizona designated by this
 title. Nothing in this title related to reserved Federal water rights
 shall be construed as establishing a precedent with regard to any future
 designations, nor shall it constitute an interpretation of any other Act
 or any designation made pursuant thereto.
 (h) WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT- In furtherance of the purposes and principles
 of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or restore fish
 and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such populations may
 be carried out within wilderness areas designated by this title, where
 consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, in accordance with
 appropriate policies and guidelines such as those set forth in Appendix B
 of the Report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs to accompany
 H.R. 2570 of the One Hundred First Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
 (i) MILITARY ACTIVITIES- Nothing in this title shall preclude low level
 overflights of military aircraft, the designation of new units of special
 airspace, or the use or establishment of military flight training routes
 over wilderness areas designated by this title.
 (j) MINERAL EXCHANGES- It is the intent of Congress that private mineral
 rights within wilderness areas designated by this title be acquired as
 expeditiously as possible by the Secretary using existing authority to
 acquire such rights by exchange.
 (k) BLACK ROCK WASH ROAD ACCESS- (1) Section 101(a)(23) of the Arizona
 Wilderness  Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 1487) is amended by striking `the
 governmental agency having jurisdictional authority may authorize limited
 access to the area, for private and administrative purposes, from U.S. Route
 70 along Black Rock Wash to the vicinity of Black Rock;
 (2)(A) In order to permit adequate public and private access to Federal,
 State, and private lands on the east side of the Santa Teresa Mountains,
 the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall administer
 that portion of Black Rock Wash Road located within the boundaries  of the
 San Carlos Apache  Reservation so  as to allow reasonable use of the road
 for private  and  administrative purposes and may permit limited public use
 of such road for the purpose of access to the public lands  outside of the
 reservation boundary.
 (B) The Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, is authorized,
 subject to the provisions of the Act of June 18, 1934, chapter 576, section 16
 (25 U.S.C. 476; 48 Stat. 987), to enter into cooperative agreements with the
 Bureau of Land Management, the Forest Service, and Graham County, Arizona,
 for  signing, fencing, and maintenance of the portion of Black Rock Wash Road
 referred to in paragraph (A). The entering into of cooperative agreements
 as authorized by this subsection shall not be construed in any way as  a
 determination of the ownership of such portion of Black Rock Wash Road.
 (3) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as  may be necessary
 to carry out this subsection.
 (l)  ALAMO DAM- Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the
 operation for flood control purposes of the Alamo Dam located on the Bill
 Williams River.
SEC. 102. AREAS RELEASED.
 Excepting for the Baker Canyon area (AZ-040-070), and the approximately
 57,800 acres of public land as generally depicted on a map entitled `Cactus
 Plain Wilderness Study Area' dated February, 1990, the Congress hereby finds
 and directs that all public lands in Arizona, administered by the Bureau
 of Land Management pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act
 of 1976 not designated as wilderness by this title, or previous Acts of
 Congress, have been adequately studied for wilderness designation pursuant
 to section 603 of such Act and are no longer subject to the requirement
 of section 603(c) of such Act pertaining to the management of wilderness
 study areas in a manner that does not impair the suitability of such areas
 for preservation as wilderness.
TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF THE GILA BOX RIPARIAN NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA
SEC. 201. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.
 (a) PURPOSES- In order to conserve, protect, and enhance the riparian and
 associated areas described in subsection (b) and the aquatic, wildlife,
 archeological, paleontological, scientific, cultural, recreational,
 educational, scenic, and other resources and values of such areas, there
 is hereby established the Gila Box Riparian National Conservation Area
 (hereafter in this title referred to as the `conservation area').
 (b) AREAS INCLUDED- The conservation area shall consist of the public lands
 generally depicted on a map entitled `Gila Box Riparian National Conservation
 Area' dated February 1990, and comprising approximately 20,900 acres.
 (c) MAP- As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act,
 a map and legal description of the conservation area shall be filed by the
 Secretary with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United
 States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the United States Senate. Such map shall have the same force
 and effect as if included in this section. Copies of such map shall be
 on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director
 of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior, and in the
 appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management in Arizona.
 (d) MANAGEMENT OF CONSERVATION AREA- (1) The Secretary shall manage the
 conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects and enhances its
 resources and values, including the resources and values specified in
 subsection (a), pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and  Management Act of
 1976 and other applicable law, including this title.
 (2) The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the conservation area as
 the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the conservation
 area is established. Except where needed for administrative purposes or
 to respond to an emergency, use of motorized vehicles in the conservation
 area shall be permitted only on roads specifically designated for such use
 as part of the management plan prepared pursuant to subsection (g).
 (e) WITHDRAWAL- Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the
 conservation area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation,
 or disposal under the public land laws; from location, entry, and patent
 under the United States mining laws; and from disposition under all laws
 pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and all amendments thereto.
 (f) WATER- (1) Congress hereby reserves a quantity of water sufficient
 to fulfill the purposes, as specified in subsection (a), for which the
 conservation area is established. The priority date of this reserved right
 shall be the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) The Secretary and all other officers of the United States shall take all
 steps necessary to protect the right reserved by paragraph (1), including
 the filing by the Secretary of a claim for the quantification of such right
 in any present or future appropriate stream adjudication in the courts of
 the State of Arizona in which the United States is or may be joined and
 which is conducted in accordance with the McCarran Amendment (43 U.S.C. 666).
 (3) Nothing in this title shall be construed as a relinquishment or reduction
 of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United States in the
 State of Arizona on or before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (4) The Federal rights reserved by this title are specific to the conservation
 area located in the State of Arizona designated by this title. Nothing in
 this title related to reserved Federal water rights shall be construed as
 establishing a precedent with regard to any future designations, nor shall
 it constitute an interpretation of any other Act or any designation made
 pursuant thereto.
 (5) Nothing in this title shall be construed to impair or conflict with the
 implementation of the authorization contained in section 304(f) of Public
 Law 90-537, approved September 30, 1968.
 (g) MANAGEMENT PLAN- (1) No later than two years after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the
 long-term management of the conservation area (hereinafter in this title
 referred to as the `management plan') in order to fulfill the purposes
 for which the conservation area is established. The management plan shall
 be developed with full public participation and shall include provisions
 designed to assure protection of the resources and values (including the
 resources and values specified in subsection (a)) of the conservation area.
 (2) The management plan shall include a discussion of the desirability of
 the inclusion in the conservation area of additional lands, including the
 lands not in Federal ownership that are contiguous to the boundary of the
 conservation area (as depicted on the map referenced in subsection (b)
 or as hereafter adjusted pursuant to subsection (h)) and within the area
 extending two miles on either side of the centerline of Eagle Creek from the
 point where Eagle Creek crosses the southern boundary of the Apache National
 Forest to the confluence of Eagle Creek with the Gila River (this area is
 hereafter referred to in this title as the `Eagle Creek riparian area').
 (3) In order to better implement the management plan, the Secretary may enter
 into cooperative agreements with appropriate State and local agencies pursuant
 to section 307(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
 (4) In order to assist in the development and implementation of the management
 plan, the Secretary may authorize appropriate research, including research
 concerning the environmental, biological, hydrological, cultural, and other
 characteristics, resources, and values of the conservation area, pursuant
 to section 307(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
 (h) ACQUISITION AND BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS- (1) Subject to the limitations set
 forth in paragraph (3), the Secretary is authorized to acquire non-Federal
 lands or interests therein within the boundaries of the conservation area
 or within the Eagle Creek riparian area.
 (2) The Secretary is authorized to adjust the boundaries of the conservation
 area so as to incorporate within the conservation area any lands or interests
 within the Eagle Creek riparian area that may be acquired after the date of
 enactment of this Act as well as public lands within that portion of the
 Eagle Creek riparian area west of the centerline of Eagle Creek that the
 Secretary finds appropriate in order to properly manage such acquired lands
 as part of the conservation area. Any lands or interests so incorporated
 shall be managed as part of the conservation area.
 (3) No lands or interests therein owned by the State of Arizona or any
 political subdivision of such State shall be acquired pursuant to this
 subsection except through donation or exchange, and no lands or interests
 within the conservation area or the Eagle Creek riparian area shall be
 acquired from any other party or entity except by donation, exchange,
 or purchase with the consent of the owner of such lands or interests.
 (i) NO BUFFER ZONES- The Congress does not intend for the establishment
 of the conservation area to lead to the creation of protective perimeters
 or buffer zones around the conservation area. The fact that there may be
 activities or uses on lands outside the conservation area that would not
 be permitted in the conservation area shall not preclude such activities
 or uses on such lands up to the boundary of the conservation area to the
 extent consistent with other applicable law.
 (j) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee
 to advise the Secretary with respect to the preparation and implementation
 of the management plan. Such advisory committee shall consist of seven
 members appointed by the Secretary. One member shall be appointed from among
 recommendations submitted by the Governor of Arizona, one member shall be
 appointed from among recommendations submitted by the Graham County Board
 of Supervisors and one member shall be appointed from among recommendations
 submitted by the Greenlee County Board of Supervisors. The remaining members
 shall be persons recognized as experts in wildlife conservation, riparian
 ecology, archeology, paleontology, or other disciplines directly related
 to the purposes for which the conservation area is established.
 (k) REPORT- No later than five years after the date of enactment of this
 Act, and at least each ten years thereafter, the Secretary shall report to
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 United States Senate on the implementation of this title, the condition
 of the resources and values of the conservation area, and the progress of
 the Secretary in achieving the purposes for which the conservation area
 is established.
 (l) ENFORCEMENT- Any person who violates any regulation promulgated by the
 Secretary to implement the provisions of this title shall be subject to a fine
 in accordance with applicable provisions of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984,
 or imprisonment of not more than 1 year, or both such fine and imprisonment.
 (m) AUTHORIZATION- There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums
 as may be necessary to implement the provisions of this title.
TITLE III--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE UNITED
STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
SEC. 301. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT
 (a) DESIGNATION- In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act,
 the following lands are hereby designated as wilderness and therefore as
 components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
 (1) certain lands in the Havasu National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, which
 comprise approximately 14,606 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Havasu Wilderness' and dated March 13, 1990, and which shall be known as
 the Havasu Wilderness;
 (2) certain lands in the Imperial National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, which
 comprise approximately 9,220 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Imperial Refuge Wilderness' and dated March 13, 1990, and which shall be
 known as the Imperial Refuge Wilderness;
 (3) certain lands in the Kofa National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona,
 which comprise approximately 510,900 acres, and certain other public
 lands comprising approximately 5,300 acres which are hereby added to and
 incorporated within such refuge (and which shall be managed accordingly),
 all as generally depicted on a map entitled `Kofa Wilderness' and dated
 August 1, 1990, and which shall be known as the Kofa Wilderness; and
 (4) certain lands in the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona,
 which comprise approximately 803,418 acres, as generally depicted on a map
 entitled `Cabeza Prieta Wilderness' and dated March 13, 1990, and which
 shall be known as the Cabeza Prieta Wilderness.
 (b) MANAGEMENT- Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness areas
 designated under this title shall be administered by the Secretary of
 the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Secretary')
 in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act governing areas
 designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any reference in such
 provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness Act (or any similar
 reference) shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of
 this title.
 (c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION- As soon as practicable after enactment of
 this title, the Secretary shall file a map and a legal description of each
 wilderness area designated under this section with the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
 of the United States House of Representatives and with the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Environment and Public
 Works of the United States Senate. Such map and description shall have the
 same force and effect as if included in this title, except that correction
 of clerical and typographical errors in such legal description and map may
 be made. Such map and legal description shall be on file and available for
 public inspection in the Office of the Director, United States Fish and
 Wildlife Service, United States Department of the Interior.
 (1)(A) With respect to each wilderness area designated by this title,
 and subject to the limitations set forth in subparagraph (B), Congress
 hereby reserves a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill the purposes of
 this title. The priority date of such reserved rights shall be the date of
 enactment of this Act.
 (B) With respect to the Havasu and Imperial wilderness areas designated by
 subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, no rights to water of the
 Colorado River are reserved, either expressly, impliedly, or otherwise.
 (2) The Secretary and all other officers of the United States shall take all
 steps necessary to protect the rights reserved by paragraph (1), including
 the filing by the Secretary of a claim for the quantification of such rights
 in any present or future appropriate steam adjudication in the courts of
 the State of Arizona in which the United States is or may be joined and
 which is conducted in accordance with the McCarran Amendment (43 U.S.C. 666).
 (3) Nothing in this title shall be construed as a relinquishment or reduction
 of any water right reserved or appropriated by the United States in the
 State of Arizona on or before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (4) The Federal water rights reserved by this title are specific to
 the wilderness areas located in the State of Arizona designated by this
 title. Nothing in this title related to reserved Federal water rights
 shall be construed as establishing a precedent with regard to any future
 designations, nor shall it constitute an interpretation of any other Act
 or any designation made pursuant thereto.
 (e) NO EFFECT ON COLORADO RIVER DAMS- Nothing in this title  shall be
 construed to affect the operation of federally owned dams located on the
 Colorado River in the Lower Basin.
 (f) MILITARY ACTIVITIES- Nothing in this title including the designation
 as wilderness of lands within the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge,
 shall be construed as--
 (1) precluding or otherwise affecting continued low-level overflights by
 military aircraft over such refuge or the maintenance of existing associated
 ground instrumentation, in accordance with any applicable interagency
 agreements in effect on the date of enactment of this Act; or
 (2) precluding the Secretary of Defense from entering into new or renewed
 agreements with the Secretary concerning use by military aircraft of
 airspace over such refuge or the maintenance of existing associated ground
 instrumentation, consistent with management of the refuge for the purpose
 for which such refuge was established and in accordance with laws applicable
 to the National Wildlife Refuge System.
 (g) LAW ENFORCEMENT BORDER ACTIVITIES- Nothing in this title, including
 the designation as wilderness of lands within the Cabeza Prieta National
 Wildlife Refuge, shall be construed as--
 (1) precluding or otherwise affecting continued border operations by the
 Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration,
 or the United States Customs Service within such refuge, in accordance with
 any applicable interagency agreements in effect on the date of enactment
 of this Act; or
 (2) precluding the Attorney General of the United States or the Secretary
 of the Treasury from entering into new or renewed agreements with the
 Secretary concerning Immigration and Naturalization Service, Drug Enforcement
 Administration, or United States Customs Service border operations within
 such refuge, consistent with management of the refuge for the purpose for
 which such refuge was established, and in accordance with laws applicable
 to the National Wildlife Refuge System.
SEC. 302. NO EFFECT ON UPPER BASIN.
 Nothing in titles I, II, or III of this Act shall amend, construe, supersede,
 or preempt any State law, Federal law, interstate compact, or international
 treaty pertaining to the Colorado River (including its tributaries) in
 the Upper Basin, including, but not limited to, the appropriation, use,
 development, storage, regulation, allocation, conservation, exportation,
 or quality of those waters.
TITLE IV--FORT McDOWELL INDIAN COMMUNITY WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
SECTION 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Fort McDowell Indian Community Water Rights
 Settlement Act of 1990'.
SEC. 402. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS.
 (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) it is the policy of the United States, in fulfillment of its trust
 responsibility to Indian tribes, to promote Indian self-determination and
 economic self-sufficiency, and to settle, wherever possible, the water
 rights claims of Indian tribes without lengthy and costly litigation;
 (2) meaningful Indian self-determination and economic self-sufficiency
 depend on development of viable Indian reservation economies;
 (3) quantification of rights to water and development of facilities needed
 to utilize tribal water supplies effectively is essential to the development
 of viable Indian reservation economies, particularly in arid western States;
 (4) on September 15, 1903, the United States Government established a
 reservation for the Fort McDowell Indian Community in Arizona north of the
 confluence of the Salt and Verde Rivers tributary to the Gila River;
 (5) the United States, as trustee for the Community, obtained water
 entitlements for the Community pursuant to the Kent Decree of 1910; however,
 continued uncertainty as to the full extent of the Community's entitlement to
 water has severely limited the Community's access to water and the financial
 resources necessary to develop its valuable agricultural lands and frustrated
 its efforts to reduce its dependence on Federal program funding and achieve
 meaningful self-determination and economic self-sufficiency;
 (6) proceedings to determine the full extent and nature of the Community's
 water rights and damages thereto are currently pending before the United
 States District Court in Arizona, the United States Claims Court, the
 Superior Court of the State of Arizona in and for Maricopa County, as part
 of the General Adjudication of the Gila River System and Source, and before
 various Federal agencies under the Federal Tort Claims Act;
 (7) recognizing that final resolution of pending litigation will take
 many years and entail great expense to all parties, continue economically
 and socially damaging limits to the Community's access to water, prolong
 uncertainty as to the availability of water supplies and seriously impair the
 long-term economic planning and development of all parties, the Community
 and neighboring non-Indian communities have sought to settle disputes over
 water and reduce the burdens of litigation;
 (8) after more than five years of negotiation, which included participation
 by representatives of the United States Government, the Community and
 neighboring non-Indian communities of the Salt River Valley, who are all
 party to the General Adjudication of the Gila River System and Source, the
 parties have entered into an agreement to resolve all water rights claims
 between and among themselves, to quantify the Community's entitlement to
 water, and to provide for the orderly development of the Community's lands;
 (9) pursuant to the agreement, the neighboring non-Indian communities will
 transfer rights to approximately twelve thousand acre-feet of surface water
 to the Community; provide for the means of firming existing water supplies
 of the Community, and make substantial additional contributions to carry
 out the agreement's provisions; and
 (10) to advance the goals of Federal Indian policy and to fulfill the trust
 responsibility of the United States to the Community, it is appropriate that
 the United States participate in the implementation of the agreement and
 contribute funds for the rehabilitation and expansion of existing reservation
 irrigation facilities so as to enable the Community to utilize fully its
 water entitlements in developing a diverse, efficient reservation economy.
 (b) Therefore, the Congress declares that the purposes of this Act are: (1)
 to approve, ratify and confirm the agreement entered into by the Community
 and its neighboring non-Indian communities, (2) to authorize and direct the
 Secretary of the Interior to execute and perform such agreement, and (3)
 to authorize the actions and appropriations necessary for the United States
 to fulfill its legal and trust obligations to the Community as provided in
 the agreement and this Act.
SEC. 403. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act--
 (a) `Agreement' means that agreement among the Fort McDowell Indian Community,
 the State of Arizona, the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement
 and Power District, the Salt River Valley Water Users' Association, the
 Roosevelt Water Conservation District, the Arizona cities of Chandler,
 Glendale, Mesa, Phoenix, Scottsdale, and Tempe, and the Arizona Town of
 Gilbert, and the Central Arizona Water Conservation District, together with
 all exhibits thereto, as the same is approved and executed by the Secretary
 of the Interior pursuant to sections 411(d) and 412(a)(8) of this Act.
 (b)  `CAP' means the Central Arizona Project, a reclamation project
 authorized under title III of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968
 (43 U.S.C. 1521 et seq.).
 (c) `CAWCD' means the Central Arizona Water Conservation District organized
 under the laws of the State of Arizona, which is the contractor under a
 contract with the United States, dated December 15, 1972, for the delivery
 of water and repayment of costs of the Central Arizona Project.
 (d) `Community' means the Fort McDowell Indian Community, a community of
 Yavapai Indians organized under section 16 of the Indian Reorganization
 Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987, 25 U.S.C. 476), and duly recognized by
 the Secretary.
 (e) `HVID' means the Harquahala Valley Irrigation District, an irrigation
 district organized under the laws of the State of Arizona.
 (f) `Kent Decree' means the decree dated March 1, 1910, entered in Patrick
 T. Hurley versus Charles F. Abbott, and others, Case Numbered 4564, in the
 District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona,
 in and for the County of Maricopa, and all decrees supplemental thereto.
 (g) `RWCD' means the Roosevelt Water Conservation District, an irrigation
 district organized under the laws of the State of Arizona.
 (h) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the United States Department of
 the Interior.
 (i) `SRP' means the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power
 District, a political subdivision of the State of Arizona, and the Salt
 River Valley Water Users' Association, an Arizona corporation.
SEC. 404. KENT DECREE REREGULATION.
 (a) To permit the Community to more fully utilize its water rights under the
 Kent Decree as provided in the Agreement and subsection (b) of this section,
 the agreement between the United States and the SRP dated June 3, 1935,
 as amended on November 26, 1935, relating to the Verde River Storage Works,
 and the agreement among the SRP, Phelps Dodge Corporation, and the Defense
 Plant Corporation dated March 1, 1944, including, but not limited to, the
 provisions of such agreements by which SRP saves and holds harmless the
 United States, and the rights of the United States and SRP to Verde River
 storage, are hereby ratified, confirmed and declared to be valid: Provided,
 however, That the priority date and quantification of these storage rights,
 and such other storage rights as may exist, shall be determined in an
 appropriate state proceeding in the State of Arizona. Nothing in this Act
 or the Agreement shall affect the validity or invalidity of any permit,
 right-of-way, license or grant held by Phelps Dodge Corporation for the
 utilization of land or water within the San Carlos Apache Reservation.
 (b) The Secretary is authorized and directed to contract with SRP, for a
 period of not more than twenty-five years from the date the authorizations
 contained in section 409(b) of this Act become effective, for the utilization
 of up to three thousand acre-feet of the existing storage right of the
 United States and SRP behind Bartlett and Horseshoe Dams on the Verde
 River for the reregulation of the Community's rights to water under the
 Kent Decree. This storage space shall be for seasonal regulation only,
 with no annual carryover past October 1.
SEC. 405. RATIFICATION AND CONFIRMATION OF CONTRACTS.
 (a) The contract between the SRP and RWCD dated October 24, 1924, together
 with all amendments thereto and any extension thereof entered into pursuant
 to the Agreement, is ratified, confirmed, and declared to be valid.
 (b) The Secretary is authorized and directed to revise the subcontract of
 the RWCD agricultural water service from the CAP to include an addendum
 substantially in the form of exhibit `10.3.2' to the Agreement and to
 execute the subcontract as revised. Notwithstanding any other provision of
 law, the Secretary shall approve the conversions of agricultural water to
 municipal and industrial uses authorized by the addendum at such time as
 the conditions authorizing such conversions, as set forth in the addendum,
 are found to exist.
 (c) The lands within the RWCD and the lands within the SRP shall be free
 from the ownership limitations of Federal reclamation law and all full cost
 pricing provisions of Federal law.
 (d) Neither SRP nor the RWCD shall become subject to the provisions of
 the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa et seq.) by virtue
 of either of their participation in the settlement or their execution and
 performance of the Agreement, including, but not limited to, any exchanges
 provided for in the Agreement.
SEC. 406. OTHER WATER.
 (a) The Secretary is authorized and directed to acquire for the Community
 thirteen thousand nine hundred thirty-three acre-feet of water from one or
 a combination of the following sources:
 (1) CAP water permanently relinquished by the HVID pursuant to contract
 with the Secretary.
 (2) CAP municipal and industrial water and CAP Indian priority water
 permanently relinquished by the City of Prescott, the Yavapai-Prescott
 Tribe, the Yavapai-Apache Indian Community of the Camp Verde Reservation,
 the Cottonwood Water Company or the Camp Verde Water Company pursuant to
 contract with the Secretary. Any water acquired by the Secretary pursuant
 to this section shall be acquired with the consent of the contracting
 entity and shall be assigned to the Community in partial satisfaction of
 the Secretary's obligation under this section.
 (3) In the event that the Secretary cannot acquire thirteen thousand nine
 hundred and thirty-three acre-feet of water, solely or in combination, from
 the sources identified in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section,
 then the Secretary is authorized to acquire, from all water resources within
 the State of Arizona at the disposal of the United States, water in amounts
 necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
HARQUAHALA VALLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT
 (b) The Secretary is authorized to contract with the HVID for the permanent
 relinquishment of any portion of HVID's rights to CAP agricultural water.
 (1) The Secretary may use HVID water with its original CAP agricultural
 priority or may convert it, at the rate of one acre-foot per CAP-eligible
 acre, to a maximum of thirty-three thousand two hundred and sixty-three
 acre-feet of CAP Indian priority water. Up to thirteen thousand nine hundred
 and thirty-three acre-feet of such water shall be made available to the
 Community by contract with the Secretary.
 (2) As consideration for the fair value of water relinquished under subsection
 (b) of this section, the Secretary is authorized:
 (i) to credit the HVID with an appropriate share of its outstanding CAP
 distribution system debt, with such share reflecting the relationship
 between the amount of HVID CAP rights acquired by the Secretary and the
 total CAP allocation of the HVID; and
 (ii) to offset the annual repayment requirements of the CAWCD under repayment
 contract numbered 14-06-W-245 in amounts which total the balance of the
 fair value of the water acquired and not accounted for under (i) above
 until such value is exhausted.
 (3) In the event that the Secretary acquires all or a part of the CAP water
 rights of the HVID, the following shall apply:
 (i) The Secretary is authorized to transfer title to existing Federal
 facilities within HVID that are no longer needed for CAP purposes to the
 CAWCD or to other non-Federal entities.
 (ii) The Secretary is authorized to approve or execute any agreements that
 are necessary to accomplish the transfer of HVID's CAP agricultural water
 rights to the Secretary for Indian water rights settlement purposes. As a
 condition of the transfer of such entitlement, the lands which are purchased
 by non-Federal interests within HVID must be excluded from HVID. Except
 as provided for in Article 8.7 of the December 1, 1988, contract between
 the United States and CAWCD, the excluded lands shall not be entitled to
 a supply of CAP water for agricultural purposes and shall not be subject
 to the ownership limitations of Federal reclamation law and all full cost
 pricing provisions of Federal law.
 (iii) The agreement implementing the transfer of HVID's CAP agricultural water
 rights to the Secretary shall provide that any lands which remain in HVID
 or its successor shall continue to be subject to the ownership limitations
 of Federal reclamation law and all full cost pricing provisions of Federal
 law as long as HVID, or its successor, has a Federal repayment obligation
 for the cost of the CAP distribution system. The agreement implementing
 the transfer shall provide that lands remaining in HVID, or its successor,
 will not bear costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement for the CAP
 distribution system greater than that which they would have in the absence
 of the transfer of HVID's CAP agricultural water rights.
 (4) Water acquired by the Secretary for the Fort McDowell Indian Community
 pursuant to this subsection shall be delivered to the Community as provided
 for in the Agreement. Any remaining water acquired by the Secretary pursuant
 to this subsection (b) shall be used only in the settlement of water rights
 claims of other Indian tribes having claims to the water in the Salt and
 Verde River system.
VERDE RIVER WATERSHED
 (c) Providing that the Secretary first acquires at least seven thousand
 acre-feet of CAP water from one or more of the entities named in subsection
 (a)(2), of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire, by purchase
 from willing sellers, land and water rights in the Big Chino Valley of the
 Verde River watershed, in an amount sufficient to replace all such water
 so acquired.
 (1) The Secretary shall not acquire any land or water rights in the
 Big Chino Valley of the Verde River watershed until he has completed a
 study to determine whether, through the construction of water diversion,
 collection, and conveyance facilities to deliver water to a point near
 Sullivan Lake in Yavapai County, Arizona (hereinafter referred to as the
 `Sullivan Lake delivery point'), the exercise of such water rights will
 not have an adverse affect on the flow or the biota of the Verde River and
 that such exercise is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of
 Meda fulgida (spikedace) or any other threatened or endangered species. The
 Secretary shall make the study required by this paragraph available to the
 public for inspection and comment upon its completion.
 (2) The Secretary is authorized to enter into an agreement with the City
 of Prescott to reimburse the city for not to exceed $800,000 advanced to
 the Secretary by the city for the purpose of expediting completion of the
 study required in subsection (c)(1) of this section.
 (3) If the Secretary determines, based upon the findings of the study, that
 the exercise of water rights will not have an adverse effect on the flow or
 the biota of the Verde River and is not likely to jeopardize the continued
 existence of Meda fulgida (spikedace) or any other threatened or endangered
 species, the Secretary shall be authorized to acquire land in the Big Chino
 Valley and to construct diversion, collection, and conveyance facilities
 sufficient to deliver the water to the Sullivan Lake delivery point.
 (4) The Secretary shall develop and implement a continuous monitoring program
 to ensure that groundwater pumping from land acquired pursuant to this
 subsection (c) shall not adversely affect the flow or the biota of the Verde
 River and to ensure that it will not jeopardize the continued existence of
 Meda fulgida (spikedace) or any other threatened or endangered species. The
 program shall be developed prior to and implemented concurrent with the
 construction of the facilities described in subsection (c)(3) of this section.
 (d) If the Secretary acquires the CAP contract or subcontracts of the
 Yavapai-Apache Indian Community of the Camp Verde Reservation, the Cottonwood
 Water Company or the Camp Verde Water Company, the Secretary is authorized to
 construct water conveyance facilities from the Sullivan Lake delivery point
 to a point downstream on the Verde River. Subject to the study required in
 subsection (d)(1) of this section and all applicable law, the Secretary is
 further authorized to place into the Verde River at the point downstream
 an amount of water sufficient, including all losses, to replace the water
 assigned by such entity or entities pursuant to this subsection.
 (1) The Secretary shall not construct any water conveyance facilities from
 the Sullivan Lake delivery point to any point downstream on the Verde River
 to replace water assigned pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section,
 until he has completed a study to determine whether the flow of the Verde
 River may be augmented without jeopardizing the continued existence of Meda
 fulgida (spikedace) or any other threatened or endangered species and, if the
 flow of the Verde may be so augmented, at what point or points downstream from
 the Sullivan Lake delivery point such augmentation would be most appropriate.
 (2) The Secretary shall, in conjunction with arrangements for the
 delivery of water pursuant to this subsection (d), develop and implement
 a monitoring program to ensure  that the augmentation of the Verde River
 will not jeopardize the continued existence of Meda fulgida (spikedace)
 or any other threatened or endangered species.
 (e) If the Secretary acquires the CAP contract or subcontract of the
 Yavapai-Prescott Tribe or the City of Prescott, the Secretary is authorized
 to construct water conveyance facilities from the Sullivan  Lake delivery
 point to the City of Prescott's existing pumping facilities in the Little
 Chino Valley, Yavapai County, Arizona. If the Secretary constructs such water
 conveyance facilities, the City of Prescott shall repay the Secretary for
 the costs thereof. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent
 the City of Prescott from constructing such conveyance facilities itself.
 (1) The Secretary shall deliver water to the City of Prescott's existing
 pumping facilities or to such other point as the Secretary and the City of
 Prescott may agree, in an amount sufficient, including all losses, to replace
 the water acquired from the City of Prescott and the Yavapai-Prescott Tribe.
 (2) The Secretary is authorized and directed to enter into such agreements
 as are necessary to ensure that the Yavapai-Prescott Tribe will receive
 its share of the water to be developed by the Secretary pursuant to this
 subsection (e). Such agreement shall set forth the cost and other terms of
 delivery of such water.
 (3) The Secretary is authorized and directed, at the request of the
 Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe, to enter into and renew agreements granting
 the Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe long-term grazing privileges on the land
 acquired by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section:
 Provided, That the exercise of such privileges by the Yavapai-Prescott Indian
 Tribe shall not interfere with the exercise of water rights upon such land
 except for water reasonably needed by the Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe in
 connection with grazing.
 (f) The Secretary is authorized to contract to deliver replacement water
 to the entities identified in subsections (d) and (e) of this section which
 relinquish CAP water to the Secretary for the benefit of the Community. The
 replacement water shall be delivered by the Secretary  at the Sullivan Lake
 delivery point unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary and the entity to
 receive the water. No replacement water may be delivered to any entity other
 than those identified in subsection (a)(2) of their section or their agents,
 and no replacement water may be used directly or indirectly outside Yavapai
 County, Arizona.
 (g) The entities which relinquish  CAP water to the Community pursuant to
 subsection (a)(2) of this section shall not be required to repay costs
 incurred by the United States pursuant to subsections (c) and (c)(3) of
 this section. The entities identified in subsection (d)  of this section,
 except for any entity which is an Indian tribe, shall repay the United
 States so much of the cost  of the undertaking identified in subsection
 (d) as the entities and the United States shall agree. The costs of any
 undertaking pursuant to this subsection (g) allocated to an Indian tribe
 shall be nonreimbursable.
 (h) The Secretary is authorized and directed to study the sources and cost
 of the water supplies, other than those identified in this section, that can
 be used to satisfy  the water rights of the Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe
 and of the Yavapai-Apache Indian Community of the Camp Verde Reservation. A
 separate study shall be made for each tribe. Each study shall be commenced
 within one hundred and eighty days after the enactment of this Act and shall
 be completed within one year after it is commenced. Copies of such studies
 shall be provided to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 United States House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Indian
 Affairs of the United States Senate.
 (i) If the Secretary acquires water for the Community pursuant to subsection
 (a)(2) of this section, then the Secretary shall exclude, for the purpose
 of determining the allocation and repayment of costs of the CAP as provided
 in Article 9.3 of Contract No. 14-06-W-245 between the United States and
 CAWCD dated December 15, 1972, and any amendment or revision thereof, the
 costs associated with such water from CAWCD's repayment obligation and such
 costs shall be non-reimbursable.
 (j) The Secretary shall, in the exercise of the authorities provided in
 subsection (a) of this section, comply with all applicable environmental law.
 (k) If the Secretary acquires at least seven thousand acre-feet of CAP water
 from the entities identified in subsection (a)(2) of this section, there is
 authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $30,000,000 to pay the costs of
 acquiring the land and water resources identified in subsection (c) of this
 section and the costs allocable to the construction of diversion, collection,
 and conveyance facilities described in subsection (c); costs allocable
 to the construction or diversion, collection, and conveyance facilities
 shall be adjusted by such  amounts, if any, as may be justified by reason
 of ordinary fluctuations in construction costs as indicated by engineering
 cost indices applicable to the types of construction involved therein.
 (l) There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to provide for the studies required in subsections (c)(1), (d)(1), and (h)
 of this section and for the monitoring programs described in subsections
 (c)(4) and (d)(2) of this section.
SEC. 407. WATER DELIVERY CONTRACT AMENDMENTS; WATER LEASE.
 (a) The Secretary is authorized and directed to amend the CAP water delivery
 contract between the United States and the community dated December 11, 1980
 (herein referred to as the `Community CAP Delivery Contract'), as follows:
 (1) to extend the term of such contract to December 31, 2099, and to provide
 for its subsequent renewal upon terms and conditions to be agreed upon by
 the parties prior to the expiration of the extended term thereof;
 (2) to authorize the Community to lease the CAP water to which the Community
 is entitled under the Community CAP Delivery Contract to the City of Phoenix
 under the terms and conditions of the Project Water lease set forth in
 exhibit `20.2.2' to the Agreement for a term commencing January 1,  2001,
 and ending December 31, 2099.
 (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amendments to the
 Community CAP Delivery Contract set forth in exhibit `20.2.1' to the Agreement
 and the terms and conditions of the Project Water Lease set forth in exhibit
 `20.2.2' to the Agreement are hereby authorized, approved, and confirmed.
 (c) The United States shall not impose upon the Community the operation,
 maintenance and replacement charges described and set forth in section `6(b)'
 of the Community CAP Delivery Contract or any other charge with respect to
 CAP water delivered or required to be delivered to the City of Phoenix as
 lessee of the Project Water Lease herein authorized.
 (d) The Community and the Secretary shall lease to the City of Phoenix,
 for a term commencing on January 1, 2001, and ending December 2099, for
 consideration in an amount agreed to by the Community and the City to be
 paid by the City to the Community, upon those reflected in the Project Water
 Lease set forth in exhibit `20.2.2' to the Agreement, the four thousand
 three hundred acre-feet of CAP water to which the Community is entitled
 under the Community CAP Delivery Contract. The Project Water Lease shall
 specifically provide that--
 (1) the City of Phoenix, in accordance with its obligations under the
 Project Water Leases, shall pay all operation, maintenance and replacement
 costs of such water to the United States, or, if directed by the Secretary,
 to the CAWCD: Provided, That such payments shall not be commenced earlier
 than October 1, 1999;
 (2) except as otherwise provided in the Project Water Lease, the City
 of Phoenix shall not be obligated to pay water service capital charges or
 municipal and industrial subcontract charges or any other charges or payment
 for such CAP water other than the operation, maintenance, and replacement
 costs and lease payments as set forth in this subsection.
 (e) For the purpose of determining the allocation and repayment of costs of
 the CAP as provided in Article 9.3 of Contract Numbered 14-06-W-245 shall
 be United States of America and the CAWCD dated December 15, 1972, and
 any amendment or revision thereof, the costs associated with the delivery
 of CAP water pursuant to the Project Water Lease referred to in subsection
 (d) shall be nonreimbursable, and such costs shall be excluded from CAWCD's
 repayment obligation.
 (f) Notwithstanding any other provision statutory of or common law, the
 Community may, with the approval of the Secretary, lease water provided to
 the Community under section 406 of this Act for its fair market value for a
 term not to exceed 100 years as provided in the Agreement but in no event
 for use outside Pima, Pinal or Maricopa Counties, State of Arizona. If
 some or all of the water provided to the Community under section 406 of
 this Act is CAP water, the provisions of subsections of (a), (b), (c),
 (d), and (e) of this section 407 shall apply to any lease of such water.
 (g) Except as authorized by this section, no water made available to the
 Community or its members pursuant to the Agreement may be sold, leased,
 transferred, or in any way used off the Community's reservation.
 (h) If water is acquired from the Salt and Verde watershed pursuant to
 section (406)(a)(3), no such water may be sold, leased, transferred, or in
 any way be used off of the Community's reservation.
SEC. 408. FORT McDOWELL INDIAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND; LOAN.
 (a) As soon as practicable, the Community shall establish the Fort McDowell
 Indian Community Development Fund into which shall be deposited--
 (1) by the Secretary, the funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (b)
 of this section; and
 (2) by the State of Arizona, $2,000,000 required by paragraph 21.4 of
 the Agreement.
 (b) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, together with interest
 accruing from one year after the date of enactment of this Act at a rate
 determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into account the average
 market yield on outstanding Federal obligations of comparable maturity,
 $23,000,000 which the Secretary shall deposit into the Community Development
 Fund for the Community to use in the design and construction of facilities
 to put to beneficial use the Community's water entitlement and for other
 economic and community development on the Fort McDowell Indian Reservation.
 (c) As of the date the authorizations contained in section 409(b) of this Act
 become effective, the Community, in its discretion, may use the Development
 Fund, principal and income, to fulfill the purposes of the Agreement and
 this title: Provided, That no amount of the Federal or State appropriations
 deposited into the Development Fund may be used to make per capita payments
 to members of the Community.
 (d) As of the date the authorizations contained in section 409(b) of this
 Act become effective--
 (1) the Secretary shall have no further duties or responsibilities with
 respect to the administration of, or expenditures from, the Development
 Fund, and
 (2) the United States shall not be liable for any claim or cause of
 action arising from the Community's use and expenditure of moneys from the
 Development Fund.
 (e) The Secretary is authorized and directed to provide to the Community a
 loan pursuant to the Small Reclamation Projects Act (Ch. 972, 70 Stat. 1044,
 43 U.S.C. 422a, as amended), in the amount of $13,000,000,  to be repaid
 over a term of fifty years without interest, for the purpose of constructing
 facilities for the conveyance and delivery of water on the Fort McDowell
 Indian Reservation: Provided, That any requirements for qualifying for the
 loan are hereby waived, including, but not limited to, the provisions of
 section 3, 4(b)(2), 5(a) and 5(c) of the  Small Reclamation Projects Act.
 (1) The Community shall establish an account into which the Community shall
 deposit $1,000,000. The principal and all accrued  income shall be retained
 in such fund until such time as the Community's obligation to repay the
 loan under subsection (e) is fulfilled.
 (2) No appropriations for the construction of the CAP made after the date of
 enactment of this Act shall be used to plan, design, construct, or operate
 any facilities on the Fort McDowell Indian Reservation.
SEC. 409. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.
 (a) The benefits realized by the Community's members under this Act shall
 constitute full and complete satisfaction of all members' claims for water
 rights or injuries to water rights under Federal and State  laws (including
 claims for water rights in ground water, surface water,  and effluent) from
 time immemorial to the effective date of this Act, and for any and all future
 claims of water rights (including claims for water rights in ground water,
 surface water, and effluent) from and after the effective date of this Act.
 (b) The Community and the Secretary on behalf of the United States
 are authorized, as part of the performance of the obligations under the
 Agreement, to execute a waiver and release of all present and future claims
 of water rights or injuries to water rights (including water rights in
 ground water, surface water, and effluent), from time immemorial to the
 effective date of this Act, and any and all future claims of water rights
 (including water rights in ground water, surface water, and effluent),
 from and after the effective date of this Act, which the Community and its
 members may have, against the United States, the State of Arizona or any
 agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other person, corporation,
 or municipal corporation, arising under the laws of the United States or
 the State  of Arizona.
 (c) Except as provided in paragraphs 19.2 and 19.5 of the Agreement, the
 United States shall not assert  any claim against the State of Arizona or
 any political subdivision thereof, or any other person, corporation, or
 municipal corporation, arising under the laws of the United States or the
 State of Arizona in its own right or on behalf of the Community based upon--
 (1) water rights or injuries to water rights of the Community and its
 members; or
 (2) water rights or injuries to water rights held by the United States on
 behalf of the Community and its members.
 (d) In the event the authorizations contained in subsection (b) of this
 section do not become effective pursuant to section 412(a), the Community
 shall retain the right to assert past and future water rights claims as to
 all reservation lands.
SEC. 410. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.
 (a) Execution of the settlement Agreement by the Secretary as provided
 for in section 411(d) shall not constitute major Federal action under the
 National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). The
 Secretary is directed to carry out all necessary environmental compliance,
 except as specifically directed otherwise herein, during the implementation
 phase of this settlement.
 (b) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary to carry out all necessary environmental compliance associated
 with this settlement, including mitigation measures adopted by the Secretary.
 (c) With respect to this settlement, the Bureau of Reclamation shall be
 designated as the lead agency in regard to environmental compliance, and
 shall coordinate and cooperate with the other affected Federal agencies as
 required under applicable environmental laws.
 (d) Except as specifically set forth herein, the Secretary shall comply with
 all aspects of NEPA and the Endangered Species Act (ESA) (16 U.S.C. 1531 et
 seq.), and other applicable environmental acts and regulations in proceeding
 through the implementation phase of this settlement: Provided, however,
 That in regard to NEPA compliance, the Secretary is precluded from studying
 or considering alternatives to the Community's on-reservation agriculture
 development plans which will be facilitated by the settlement, or performed
 under the Small Reclamation Projects loan made pursuant to section 408(e).
SEC. 411. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 (a) In the event any party to the Agreement should file a lawsuit in
 Federal District Court relating only and directly to the interpretation
 or enforcement of this title or the Agreement, naming the United States of
 America or the Community as parties, authorization is hereby granted to join
 the United States of America and/or the Community in any such litigation,
 and any claim by the United States of America or the Community to sovereign
 immunity from such suit is hereby waived.
 (b) The United States of America shall make no claims for reimbursement
 of costs arising out of the implementation of this title or the Agreement
 against any lands within the Fort McDowell Indian Reservation, and no
 assessment shall be made with regard to such costs against such lands.
 (c) Water received by entities other than the Community pursuant to the
 Agreement shall not affect any future allocation or reallocation of the
 CAP supply.
 (d) To the extent the Agreement does not conflict with the provisions of this
 title, such Agreement is hereby approved, ratified, and confirmed. The
 Secretary is authorized and directed to execute and perform such
 Agreement. The Secretary is further authorized to execute any amendments
 to the Agreement and perform any action required by any amendments to the
 Agreement which may be mutually agreed upon by the parties.
 (e) As of the date the authorizations contained in section 409(b) of this
 Act become effective, section 302(a) of the Colorado River Basin Project Act
 (43 U.S.C. 1522(a)) shall no longer apply to the Community.
 (f) An easement for the construction, operation and maintenance of the
 Community's water diversion system on and within the lands identified in
 the Community's special permit extension application dated July 12, 1990,
 filed with the United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture,
 is hereby granted in perpetuity.
 (g) As of the date the authorizations contained in section 409(b) of this
 Act and in section 10(b) of the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community
 Water Rights Settlement Act (102 Stat. 2549) become effective, subsection
 404(a) of this Act shall become effective as to the Salt River Pima-Maricopa
 Indian Community and the United States.
 (h) Section 7(a) of the Salt River  Pima-Maricopa Indian  Community Water
 Rights Act (102 Stat. 2549) is hereby amended by striking the date `1990'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `1991.'
SEC. 412. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) The authorizations contained in section 409(b) of this Act shall become
 effective as of the date the Secretary causes to be published in the Federal
 Register a  statement of findings that:
 (1) the Secretary has signed a contract with the SRP for the storage and
 reregulation of the Community's  Kent Decree water pursuant to section 404;
 (2) the RWCD subcontract for agricultural water service from CAP has been
 revised and executed as provided in section 405(b);
 (3) the Secretary has acquired water pursuant to section 406 and made it
 available for delivery for the benefit of the Community;
 (4) the funds authorized by section 408(b) have been appropriated and
 deposited into the Community Development Fund;
 (5) the loan authorized by section 408(e) has been provided to the Community;
 (6) the State of Arizona has appropriated and deposited into the Community
 Development Fund the $2,000,000 required by paragraph 21.4 of the Agreement;
 (7) the stipulation which is attached to the Agreement as exhibit `19.5'
 has been approved; and
 (8) the Agreement has been modified to the extent it is in conflict with
 this title and has been executed by the Secretary.
 (b) If the actions described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),
 (6), (7), and (8) of subsection (a) of this section have not occurred by
 December 31, 1993, sections 4, 5(a), and 5(b), if they have not theretofore
 become effective pursuant to the provisions of the Act of October 20, 1988
 (Public Law 100-512), and sections 407, 408(a), 408(b), 408(e), 409(b),
 409(c), 411(a), 411(b), 411(c), 411(d), 411(e) and 411(f) of this Act and
 any contracts entered into pursuant to those provisions shall not thereafter
 be effective, and any funds appropriated pursuant to section 408(b) of this
 Act shall revert to the Treasury, and any funds appropriated pursuant  to
 paragraph 21.4 of the Agreement shall revert to the State of Arizona.
SEC. 413. OTHER CLAIMS.
 Nothing in the Agreement or this title shall be construed in any way to
 quantify or otherwise adversely affect the land and water rights, claims
 or entitlements to water of any Arizona Indian tribe, band or community,
 other than the Community.
TITLE V--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN TEXAS
SEC. 501. EXPANSION OF SAN ANTONIO MISSIONS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
 (a) EXPANSION- Section 201(a) of the Act entitled `An Act to amend the
 Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972; to provide for
 the establishment of the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park;
 and other purposes' (16 U.S.C. 410ee(a)) is amended by inserting after the
 first sentence the following: `The park shall also consist of the lands
 and interests therein within the area bounded by the line depicted as
 `Proposed Boundary Extension' on the maps entitled `San Antonio Missions
 National Historical Park', numbered 472-80,075, 472-80,076, 472-80,077,
 472-80,078, 472-80,079, 472-80,080,  and 472-80,081 and dated June 7,
 1990, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the
 same manner as is such drawing.'.
 (b) DEVELOPMENT OF ESSENTIAL PUBLIC FACILITIES- Section 201(f)(2) of such
 Act is amended by striking `not more than $500,000.' and inserting `not
 more  than $15,000,000.'.
SEC. 502. LAKE MEREDITH NATIONAL RECREATION AREA
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to provide for public outdoor recreation use
 and enjoyment of the lands and waters associated with Lake Meredith in the
 State of Texas, and to protect the scenic, scientific, cultural, and other
 values  contributing to the public enjoyment of such lands and waters,
 there is hereby established the Lake Meredith National Recreation Area
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `recreation area').
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- The recreation area shall consist of the lands, waters, and
 interests therein within the area  generally depicted on the map  entitled
 `Lake  Meredith National Recreation Area Boundary Map, `Fee-Take Line',
 numbered SWRO--80,023-A, and dated September 1990. The map shall be on
 file and available for  public inspection in the  offices of the National
 Park Service, Department of the  Interior. The Secretary of the Interior
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Secretary') may from time to
 time make minor revisions in the boundary of the recreation area.
 (c) TRANSFER- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal lands,
 waters, and interests therein within the recreation area are  hereby
 transferred to the National Park Service.
 (2) Those lands depicted  on the map referred to in subsection (b) that
 are necessary for the continued operation, maintenance, and replacement
 of  the Canadian River Project facilities and its purposes of providing
 for municipal and industrial water supply and flood control shall remain
 under  the jurisdiction of  the Bureau of Reclamation.
SEC. 503. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall administer the recreation area  in
 accordance with this Act and the  provisions of  law generally applicable
 to units of the national park  system, including  the Act entitled `An Act
 to establish a National Park Service,  and for other  purposes', approved
 August  25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), and the Act of August 7,
 1946 (60 Stat. 885). In  the  administration of such recreation area, the
 Secretary may utilize such statutory authority as may be available to him
 for the protection of natural and cultural resources as he deems necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this Act.
 (b) OPERATION OF CANADIAN RIVER  PROJECT- Nothing in this Act shall be
 construed  to affect or interfere with the authority of the Secretary  under
 the Act of December 29, 1950 (Public Law 81-898; 43  U.S.C. 600b et seq.),
 to operate Sanford Dam and  Lake  Meredith  in accordance with and for the
 purposes set forth in that Act.
 (c) LAND ACQUISITION- Within the boundary of the recreation  area, the
 Secretary may acquire  lands and interests in lands by purchase  with donated
 or appropriated  funds, exchange, or transfer without reimbursement from
 any Federal agency.
 (d) CULTURAL RESOURCES- The Secretary shall conduct a survey of the cultural
 resources in the  immediate vicinity of the recreation  area. The Secretary
 is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with public  or private
 entities, including landowners, for the purpose of conducting  the  survey
 required by this subsection. Not later  than three years after  the date
 on which funds have been made  available, the Secretary shall submit a
 report to the Committee on Interior  and Insular Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 Senate on the results of  the survey required by this subsection.
 (e) HUNTING AND FISHING- (1) The Secretary shall permit  hunting and
 fishing on lands  and waters under  the Secretary's jurisdiction within the
 recreation area in accordance with applicable  Federal and State law. The
 Secretary may designate  zones where, and establish periods when, hunting or
 fishing will not be permitted for reasons  of public  safety, administration,
 fish and wildlife management, or public use  and enjoyment.
 (2) Except in emergencies any regulations issued by the Secretary under
 this subsection shall be put into effect only after consultation with the
 appropriate  State agencies  responsible for hunting and fishing activities.
 (f) COOPERATIVE  AGREEMENTS- For purposes  of administering the recreation
 area, the Secretary may enter into cooperative  agreements with any
 Federal agency, the State of Texas, or any political subdivision thereof,
 including the Canadian River Municipal Water Authority, for the rendering,
 on a reimbursable basis, of rescue, firefighting, law enforcement, fire
 preventive assistance, and other needs. The Secretary may enter into a
 cooperative  agreement with  the city of Fritch, Texas, to develop and
 operate a  joint  venture information center. Federal funds may be expended
 on non-Federal lands and improvements through cooperative agreements for
 the purpose of this section on a  50-50 matching basis.
SEC. 504. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of sections 502 and 503 of this Act.
SEC. 505. ESTABLISHMENT OF AMISTAD NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.
 (a) In order to--
 (1) provide for public outdoor recreation use and enjoyment of the lands
 and waters associated with the United States portion of the reservoir known
 as Lake Amistad, located on the boundary between the State of Texas and
 Mexico, and
 (2) protect the scenic, scientific, cultural, and other value contributing
 to the public enjoyment of such lands and waters,
there is hereby established the Amistad National Recreation Area (hereafter
in this section and section 506 referred to as the `recreation area').
 (b) The recreation area shall consist of the Federal lands, waters,
 and interests therein within the area generally depicted on the map
 entitled `Boundary Map, Proposed Amistad National Recreation Area',
 numbered 621/20,013-B, and dated July 1969. The map shall be on file and
 available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service,
 Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in
 this Act referred to as the `Secretary') may from time to time make minor
 revisions in the boundary of the recreation area, but the total acreage of
 the recreation area may not exceed 58,500 acres. Within the boundary of the
 recreation area, the Secretary may acquire lands and interests in lands by
 purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer without
 reimbursement from any Federal agency.
SEC. 506. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) The Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with
 applicable provisions of this Act and the provisions of law generally
 applicable to units of the national park system, including the Act entitled
 `An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes',
 approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), and the Act of
 August 7, 1946 (60 Stat. 885). In the administration of such recreation area,
 the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority as may be available to him
 for the protection of natural and cultural resources as he deems necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act. Nothing in this Act shall be construed
 to amend or alter the responsibilities of the International Boundary and
 Water Commission, United States and Mexico, under any applicable treaty.
 (b) The administration of the recreation area by the Secretary shall be
 subject to and in accordance with all applicable treaties, including the
 treaty between the United States and Mexico relating to the utilization
 of waters of the Colorado and Tijuana Rivers and the Rio Grande, entered
 into force November 8, 1945 (59 Stat. 1219, and in  accordance with the
 Act of July 7, 1960 (Public Law 86-605; 74 Stat. 360), and any commitment
 or agreement entered into pursuant to such treaty or Act, including (but
 not limited to) commitments or agreements relating to--
 (1) the demarcation and maintenance of boundaries;
 (2) the use, storage, and furnishing of water;
 (3) control of floods;
 (4) investigations relative to the operation of the Amistad Dam; and
 (5) the production of hydroelectric energy.
 (c) The Secretary shall conduct a survey of the cultural resources in the
 immediate vicinity of the recreation  area. The Secretary is authorized
 to enter into cooperative agreements with public or private entities,
 including landowners, for the purpose of conducting the survey required by
 this subsection. Not later than two years after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate on the results of the survey
 required by this subsection.
 (d)(1) The Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters
 under the Secretary's jurisdiction within the recreation area in accordance
 with applicable Federal and State law. The Secretary may designate zones
 where, and establish periods when, hunting or fishing will not be permitted
 for reasons of public safety, administration, fish and wildlife management,
 or public use and enjoyment.
 (2) Except in emergencies any regulations issued by the Secretary under
 this subsection shall be put into effect only after consultation with the
 appropriate State agencies responsible for hunting and fishing activities.
 (e) For purposes of administering the recreation area, the Secretary may enter
 into cooperative agreements with any Federal agency, the State of Texas, or
 any political subdivision thereof, for the rendering, on a reimbursable basis,
 of rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement and fire preventive assistance.
SEC. 507. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of sections 505 and 506 of this Act.
TITLE VI--UNDERGROUND RAILROAD STUDY
SEC. 601. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this title is to study the Underground Railroad, its routes and
 operations in order to preserve and interpret this aspect of American history.
 SEC. 602. (a) The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director
 of the National Park Service, shall conduct a study of alternatives for
 commemorating and interpreting the Underground Railroad, the approximate
 routes taken by slaves escaping to freedom before the conclusion of the
 Civil War. The study shall include--
 (1) the consideration of the establishment of a new unit of the national
 park system;
 (2) the consideration of the establishment of various appropriate designations
 for those routes and sites utilized by the Underground Railroad, and
 alternative means to link those sites, including in Canada and Mexico;
 (3) recommendations for cooperative arrangements with State and local
 governments, local historical organizations, and other entities; and
 (4) cost estimates for the alternatives.
 (b) The study shall be--
 (1) conducted with public involvement and in consultation with the advisory
 committee established by section 4, State and local officials, scholarly
 and other interested organizations and individuals,
 (2) completed no later than two years after the date on which funds are
 made available for the study, and
 (3) submitted to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
 of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the Senate.
 SEC. 603. Within three years after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National
 Park Service, shall prepare  and publish an interpretive handbook on the
 Underground Railroad in the larger context of American antebellum society,
 including the history of slavery and abolitionism.
 SEC. 604. (a) The Secretary, upon funds being made available to carry out
 this title, shall establish the Underground Railroad Advisory Committee
 (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the `Advisory Committee'). The
 Advisory Committee shall be composed of nine members, appointed by the
 Secretary of the Interior, of whom--
 (1) three shall have expertise in African-American History;
 (2) two shall have expertise in historic preservation;
 (3) one shall have expertise in American History; and
 (4) three shall be from the general public.
The Advisory Committee shall designate one of its members as Chairperson.
 (b) The Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, shall from time to time,
 but at least on three occasions, meet and consult with the Advisory Committee
 on matters relating to the study conducted under section 2.
 (c) Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation  as
 such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out
 their responsibilities under this Act on vouchers signed by the Chairperson.
 SEC. 605. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary to carry out this title.
TITLE VII--SUDBURY, ASSABET, AND CONCORD RIVERS STUDY
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord Wild and
 Scenic River Study Act'.
SEC. 702. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) The Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord Rivers in the Commonwealth of
 Massachusetts possess resource values of national significance, including
 outstanding wildlife and ecological values, historic sites, and a  cultural
 past important to America's literary heritage.
 (2) Portions of this study segment have been listed on the Nationwide Rivers
 Inventory by the National Park Service.
 (3) There is strong  support among State and local officials and area
 residents and river users for a cooperative wild and scenic river  study
 of the area.
 (4) In view  of the longstanding Federal practice  of  assisting States
 and local governments in protecting, conserving, and enhancing rivers of
 national significance,  the United States has an interest in assisting
 the  Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the appropriate local governments
 in studying and developing a resource conservation and management plan  for
 the river, consistent with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
SEC. 703. WILD AND SCENIC  RIVER STUDY.
 (a) LISTING FOR STUDY- Section 5(a) of the  Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1276(a))  is amended by adding the following new  paragraph at
 the end thereof:
 `( ) SUDBURY, ASSABET, AND CONCORD, MASSACHUSSETS- The segment of the Sudbury
 from the Danforth Street Bridge in the town of Framingham, to its confluence
 with the  Assabet, the Assabet from 1,000 feet downstream of  the Damon
 Mill Dam  in Concord to its confluence with the Sudbury and the Concord
 from the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet downstream to the Route 3
 Bridge in the town of Billerica. The study of such river segments shall be
 completed and the report submitted thereon not later than at the end of the
 third fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this paragraph.'.
SEC. 704. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a) APPOINTMENT- At the earliest practicable date following the enactment of
 this Act, but not later than forty-five days after enactment, the Secretary of
 the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the `Secretary') shall establish the
 Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord Rivers Study Committee (hereinafter referred
 to as the `Committee'). The Secretary shall consult with the Committee
 on a regular basis during the conduct of the study required by section 3
 of this Act  (hereafter `the study') and the preparation and submission,
 pursuant  to section 4 of the Wild and  Scenic Rivers Act, of a  report
 with respect to the river  segments covered by the study.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEDURES-
 (1) Membership on the Committee shall consist of  13 members appointed by
 the Secretary as follows:
 (A) One member shall be appointed by the Secretary from the Fish and
 Wildlife Service.
 (B) Two  members shall be appointed by the Secretary from a list  of
 candidates  supplied to the Secretary by the Governor of the Commonwealth
 of Massachusetts.
 (C) One member  shall be appointed by the  Secretary from a list of candidates
 supplied  to the Secretary by the Sudbury Valley Trustees.
 (D) One member  shall be appointed by the  Secretary from a list of candidates
 supplied  to the Secretary by the Organization for  the Assabet River.
 (E) One member  each shall be appointed by the Secretary from lists of
 candidates  supplied to the Secretary by  the Board  of  Selectmen or
 equivalent local governing body of each of  the  eight towns located  within
 the area covered by the study.
 (2) The members of the Committee shall elect a chairman, vice  chairman,
 and recording secretary from the membership at the first official meeting of
 the Committee. Official minutes shall be kept of each regular  and special
 meeting  of the Committee  and  shall be open for public inspection.
 (3) Any vacancy on the Committee shall be  filled in the same manner in which
 the original appointment was made. Any  member appointed  to fill a vacancy
 occurring before the expiration of  the term for which his  predecessor was
 appointed  shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. Vacancies
 in the membership of the Committee  shall not affect its power to function
 if there  remain sufficient members to constitute  a quorum under paragraph
 (4) of this subsection.
 (4) A  majority of the members  of the Committee shall constitute  a quorum
 for all meetings.
 (5) The Committee shall advise the Secretary in conducting the study and
 concerning management alternatives  should some  or all of the river segments
 studied  be included  in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
 (6) Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation but may be
 reimbursed  by the Secretary for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
 by them in the performance of their duties  as  members of the Committee.
 (7) The Committee may accept and utilize the services of voluntary,
 uncompensated personnel.
 (8) The  Committee  shall terminate upon the submission to the President,
 pursuant to section 4 of the  Wild and Scenic  Rivers Act,  of the report
 with respect to the river  segments covered by the study.
SEC. 705. AUTHORIZATION.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this title.
TITLE VIII--PRIVATE RELIEF PROVISIONS
 SEC. 801. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not
 limited to section 8 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1279) or
 any provision of the public land laws of the United States, the Secretary
 of the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Secretary')
 shall survey and convey all right, title, and interest of the United States
 to the property described in subsection (b) to Leroy W. Shebal in exchange
 for the sum of $650 in 1965 dollars adjusted for inflation to 1990 dollars,
 or $3,000 dollars, whichever is less, and subject to the following conditions:
 (1) any deed of conveyance shall provide that existing improvements on such
 property shall not be substantially expanded and the use of such property
 shall be limited to prior or current levels; and
 (2) the United States shall reserve a right of first refusal to reacquire
 such property at fair market value (as set forth in the Uniform Relocation
 Assistance and Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646,
 84 Stat. 1905)) upon a decision by Leroy W. Shebal to convey such property
 or upon his death: Provided, That such right shall be extinguished if not
 exercised by the Secretary by payment in full within one year from (i)
 the date on which Leroy W. Shebal notifies the Secretary in writing of
 his decision to convey the property, or (ii) the death of Leroy W. Shebal,
 whichever occurs first.
 (b) The property referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately five acres
 of land located at Township 8 North, Range 1 West, Section 36, west half
 of the southwest quarter, Fairbanks Meridian, and described in Small Tract
 Application No. F-021611, which is currently under permit to Leroy W. Shebal.
 SEC. 802. Section 1110(b) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation
 Act (Public Law 96-487, 94 Stat. 2371) shall not apply to the property
 described in section 501(b).
 SEC. 803. The provisions of this title shall be effective only if Leroy
 W. Shebal notifies the Secretary in writing within one year from the date
 of enactment of this Act of his intention to purchase from the United States
 the property described in section 801(b).
 SEC. 804. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the
 Interior shall convey to Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Blevins of Kuna, Idaho, by
 quitclaim deed or other appropriate instrument and without consideration,
 all right, title, and interest of the United States, excluding oil, gas,
 and other mineral deposits, in and to a parcel of public land described as
 the East half, Southeast Quarter (E 1/2 SE 1/4 ) of Section 33, Township
 2 North, Range 1 East, of the Boise Meridian in Ada County, Idaho.
TITLE IX--CAMP W.G. WILLIAMS LAND EXCHANGE
SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This title may be cited as the `Camp W.G. Williams Land
 Exchange Act of 1989'.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this title--
 (1) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (2) The term `camp boundaries' means the exterior boundaries of Camp
 W.G. Williams after enactment of this Act, in Utah and Salt Lake Counties,
 Utah, as generally depicted on the map referenced in section 902(a) of
 this Act.
SEC. 902. EXCHANGE.
 (a) OFFERS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, as soon as possible
 but not later than six months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary shall offer to exchange lands identified  as `FEDERAL LANDS OFFERED
 FOR EXCHANGE' on a map entitled `PROPOSED EXCHANGE FOR CAMP W.G. WILLIAMS,
 UTAH', dated August 25, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the `map'), to the
 owners of tracts of private lands identified as `PRIVATE LANDS TO BE ADDED
 TO CAMP W.G. WILLIAMS BY EXCHANGE AND WITHDRAWAL' on such map. If the owners
 of any or all of such   tracts of private lands accept the offer within two
 years after the date of enactment of this Act, then the Secretary as soon as
 practicable shall convey to such owner or owners or their designee title to
 so much of the identified land as is approximately equal in  value to such
 tracts of private land as are simultaneously conveyed to the United States.
 (b) Any lands, identified on  the map as `FEDERAL LANDS OFFERED FOR EXCHANGE',
 not exchanged shall be returned to the public domain.
SEC. 903. BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LANDS.
 Lands identified on the map as `PUBLIC LANDS AT CAMP W.G. WILLIAMS TO BE
 WITHDRAWN' shall be transferred to the Department of the Army.
SEC. 904. ARMY LANDS.
 Subject to the provisions of section 907, lands identified on the map as
 `WITHDRAWN LANDS TO BE RETURNED TO PUBLIC DOMAIN' shall be transferred to
 the Department of the Interior, returned to the public domain and managed
 accordingly.
SEC. 905. ACQUISITIONS.
 The Secretary, in accordance with applicable law, is authorized to acquire,
 solely by donation or exchange from a willing seller, lands that are
 identified as 2a and 2b on the map, and is directed to transfer such lands
 to the Department of the Army for the explicit purpose of addition to Camp
 W.G. Williams. The Secretary of the Army shall modify the camp boundaries
 so as to encompass lands acquired pursuant to this subsection.
SEC. 906. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY LANDS.
 (a) All lands transferred, exchanged, or acquired by this Act within the camp
 boundaries shall immediately become a part of Camp W.G. Williams and shall be
 administered and managed by the Department of the Army in accordance with the
 same laws, regulations, and executive orders applicable to the lands under
 the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army adjoining such acquired tracts.
 (b) Subject to valid existing rights, no lands owned by the United States
 within the camp boundaries shall be available for any form of settlement,
 sale, location, or entry under the general land laws, including the mining
 laws, but not the mineral or geothermal leasing laws, and such lands shall
 be administered and managed by the Department of the Army.
 (c) The provisions of this section shall be effective for a period of twenty
 years after the date of enactment of this Act, unless at the end of such
 twenty-year period, the Secretary of the Army determines that such lands
 are still required for purposes of national security, in which case the
 provisions of this section shall be effective for a period of forty years
 after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 907. REVOCATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER, ETC.
 (a) REVOCATION- (1) Executive Order 1922 of April 24, 1914, shall be revoked,
 only insofar as it affects lands outside of the camp boundaries and only
 upon acceptance by the Secretary of an appropriate certification by the
 Secretary of the Army that such lands do not contain any hazardous materials
 or substances, as defined by applicable Federal law. Upon such revocation,
 affected lands shall be returned to the public domain and managed accordingly.
 (2) The Secretary of the Army shall perform all inspections and other
 actions necessary to make the certification required in paragraph (1),
 and shall report his findings to the Secretary, within one year after the
 date of enactment of this Act. Thereafter the Secretary of the Army shall
 hold harmless the Secretary for any liability associated with any hazardous
 materials or substances as defined by applicable Federal law that were
 placed upon or reasonably appear to have been placed upon the land prior
 to the return of the subject lands to the public domain.
 (b) LIABILITY- Upon the acquisition by the United States of any lands or
 interest in land pursuant to this title, any liability accruing to the
 United States as a result of such acquisition shall be deemed to vest in
 the United States Department of the Army. In no event shall liability vest
 in the Department of the Interior.
SEC. 908. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.
 As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 shall publish in the Federal Register a legal description of the lands
 proposed to be exchanged by this title and shall file such maps and the
 legal descriptions with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the United States Senate and with the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives.
TITLE X--TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO TITLE V OF THE ARIZONA-IDAHO CONSERVATION
ACT OF 1988
 SEC. 1001. Title V of the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988 (Public
 Law 100-696; 102 Stat. 4571) is amended as follows--
 (a) Section 501 is amended by inserting after the parenthetical phrase and
 before the words `which the Secretary deems necessary' the words `or other
 appropriate lands as selected by the State of Arizona under section 28 of
 the Act of June 20, 1910 (30 Stat. 557, as amended by the Act of June 5,
 1935, 49 Stat. 1477)'.
 (b) Section 502(b) is amended by adding the following new sentence at the
 end thereof: `With the consent of the State of Arizona and to the extent
 that the lands referred to in subsection (a) of this section are acquired by
 eminent domain, the Secretary may use as compensation the lands described in
 sections 501, and 507 (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Act, and such other lands
 as the Secretary determines necessary to constitute the fair market value
 of the State of Arizona lands acquired by eminent domain.'.
 (c) Section 507(b) is redesignated as section 507(c), and the following
 new subsection (b) is added as follows:
 `(b) CONVEYANCE TO THE STATE OF ARIZONA- The Federal lands described in
 section 506(a) of this Act may be conveyed to the State of Arizona by the
 Secretary to the extent such conveyance is necessary to establish fair
 market value compensation for State lands described in section 502(a)
 acquired by eminent domain pursuant to section 502(b).'.
TITLE XI--TAKE PRIDE IN AMERICA PROGRAM
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Take Pride in America Act'.
SEC. 1102. ESTABLISHMENT OF TAKE PRIDE IN AMERICA PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- There is hereby established the Take Pride in America
 Program within the Department of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as
 the `TPIA Program').
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of the TPIA Program shall include the following:
 (1) To establish and maintain a public awareness campaign in cooperation
 with public and private organizations and individuals--
 (A) to instill in the public the importance of the appropriate use of, and
 appreciation for Federal, State, and local lands, facilities, and natural
 and cultural resources;
 (B) to encourage an attitude of stewardship and responsibility toward these
 lands, facilities, and resources; and
 (C) to promote participation by individuals, organizations, and communities
 of a conservation ethic in caring for these lands, facilities, and resources.
 (2) To conduct a national awards program to honor those individuals and
 entities which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior (hereafter
 in this Act referred to as the `Secretary'), have distinguished themselves
 in the activities described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
SEC. 1103. GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.
 (a) AUTHORITY- The Secretary may solicit, accept, hold, administer, invest in
 government securities, and use gifts and bequests of money and other personal
 property to aid or facilitate the purposes of the TPIA Program. Property
 so donated and accepted shall not be subject to sequestration.
 (b) ACCOUNTING- The Secretary shall maintain a full accounting of such
 gifts and bequests.
 (c) TREATMENT OF DONATIONS, ETC- For purposes of Federal law, property
 accepted pursuant to this section shall be considered as a gift, bequest,
 or devise to the United States.
 (d) USE OF PROPERTY- Any property and the proceeds thereof shall be used
 as nearly as practicable in accordance with the terms of the gift or bequest.
SEC. 1104. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.
 The Secretary of the Interior shall provide such facilities, administrative
 services, personnel, and support to the TPIA Program as the Secretary
 determines is necessary and appropriate.
SEC. 1105. VOLUNTEERS.
 (a) AUTHORITY TO USE VOLUNTEERS- The Secretary is authorized to recruit,
 train, and accept the services of individuals or entities, without
 compensation, as volunteers for or in aid of the purposes of the TPIA
 Program, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
 that govern appointments in the competitive service, and the provisions of
 chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code,
 that relate to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
 (b) INCIDENTAL EXPENSES- The Secretary is authorized to provide for the
 incidental expenses of such volunteers, such as transportation, uniforms,
 lodging, or subsistence.
 (c) VOLUNTEERS' STATUS AS FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- (1) Except as otherwise provided
 in this subsection, a volunteer shall not be deemed a Federal employee and
 shall not be subject to the provisions of law relating to Federal employment,
 including those provisions relating to hours of work, rates of compensation,
 leave, unemployment compensation, and Federal employee benefits.
 (2) For purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly
 referred to as the `Federal Tort Claims Act'), a volunteer under this
 subsection shall be considered an employee of the government (as defined
 in section 2671 of such title).
 (3) For purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States
 Code, relating to compensation to Federal employees for work injuries,
 a volunteer under this subsection shall be considered an employee (as
 defined in section 8101 of title 5, United States Code).
SEC. 1106. AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS.
 The Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements
 and generally to do any and all lawful acts necessary or appropriate to
 further the purposes of the TPIA Program.
SEC. 1107. DISTRIBUTION OF APPROPRIATE ITEMS.
 The Secretary is authorized to distribute pamphlets and other such appropriate
 items in order to promote the purposes of the TPIA Program.
SEC. 1108. SLOGAN AND LOGO.
 The `Take Pride in America' slogan and logo, which are registered by the
 Department of the Interior, and the goodwill associated with such slogan
 and logo, shall be administered pursuant to the TPIA Program.
SEC. 1109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR- There are authorized to be appropriated to
 the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of
 this title, not to exceed the amount expended for such purposes for fiscal
 year 1990.
 (b) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES- There are authorized to be appropriated to other
 Federal departments and agencies such sums as may be necessary to carry out
 the provisions of any other Take Pride in America programs established by
 such departments or agencies.
TITLE XII--CIVIL WAR AND OTHER STUDIES
SEC. 1201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Civil War Sites Study Act of 1990'.
SEC. 1202. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this title--
 (1) the term `Commission' means the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission
 established in section 105;
 (2) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (3) the term `Shenandoah Valley Civil War sites' means those sites and
 structures situated in the Shenandoah Valley in the Commonwealth of Virginia
 which are thematically tied with the nationally significant events that
 occurred in the region during the Civil War, including, but not limited to,
 General Thomas `Stonewall' Jackson's 1862 `Valley Campaign' and General
 Philip Sheridan's 1864 campaign culminating in the battle of Cedar Creek
 on October 19, 1864.
SEC. 1203. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) many sites and structures associated with the Civil War which represent
 important means by which the Civil War may continue to be understood and
 interpreted by the public are located in regions which are undergoing rapid
 urban and suburban development; and
 (2) it is important to obtain current information on the significance of such
 sites, threats to their integrity, and alternatives for their preservation
 and interpretation for the benefit of the Nation.
SEC. 1204. SHENANDOAH VALLEY CIVIL WAR SITES STUDY.
 (a) STUDY- (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed to prepare a
 study of Shenandoah Valley Civil War sites. Such study shall identify the
 sites, determine the relative significance of such sites, assess short-
 and long-term threats to their integrity, and provide alternatives for the
 preservation and interpretation of such sites by Federal, State, and local
 governments, or other public or private entities, as may be appropriate. Such
 alternatives may include, but shall not be limited to, designation as units
 of the National Park System or as affiliated areas. The study shall examine
 methods and make recommendations to continue current land use practices,
 such as agriculture, where feasible.
 (2) The Secretary shall designate at least two nationally recognized Civil
 War historians to participate in the study required by paragraph (1).
 (3) The study shall include the views and recommendations of the National
 Park System Advisory Board.
 (b) TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date that
 funds are made available for the study referred to in subsection (a), the
 Secretary shall transmit such study to the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate.
SEC. 1205. ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVIL WAR SITES ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- There is hereby established the Civil War Sites Advisory
 Commission. The Commission shall consist of thirteen members appointed
 as follows:
 (1) Twice individuals who are nationally recognized as experts and authorities
 on the history of the Civil War, and two individuals who are nationally
 recognized as experts and authorities in historic preservation and land
 use planning, appointed by the Secretary.
 (2) The Director of the National Park Service or his or her designee.
 (3) The chair of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, or his or
 her designee.
 (4) Three individuals appointed by the Speaker of the United States House
 of Representatives in consultation with the Chairman and Ranking Minority
 Member of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs.
 (5) Three individuals appointed by the President Pro Tempore of the United
 States Senate in consultation with the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
 of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
 (b) CHAIR- The Commission shall elect a chair from among its members.
 (c) VACANCIES- Vacancies occurring on the Commission shall not affect
 the authority of the remaining members of the Commission to carry out the
 functions of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be promptly
 filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (d) QUORUM- A simple majority of Commission members shall constitute a quorum.
 (e) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at least quarterly or upon the call
 of the chair or a majority of the members of the Commission.
 (f) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve without
 compensation. Members of the Commission, when engaged in official Commission
 business, shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in lieu
 of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in
 government service under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
 (g) TERMINATION- The Commission established pursuant to this section shall
 terminate 90 days after the transmittal of the report to Congress as provided
 in section 8(c).
SEC. 1206. STAFF OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- The Director of the National Park Service, or his
 or her designee, shall serve as the Executive Director of the Commission.
 (b) STAFF- The Director of the National Park Service shall, on a reimbursable
 basis, detail such staff as the Commission may require to carry out its
 duties.
 (c) STAFF OF OTHER AGENCIES- Upon the request of the Commission, the head of
 any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel
 of such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out
 its duties.
 (d) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the
 Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services
 to the same extent as authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, United
 States Code, but at rates determined by the Commission to be reasonable.
SEC. 1207. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission may for the purpose of carrying out this
 title hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such
 testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission may deem advisable.
 (b) BYLAWS- The Commission may make such bylaws, rules and regulations,
 consistent with this title, as it considers necessary to carry out its
 functions under this title.
 (c) DELEGATION- When so authorized by the Commission, any member or agent
 of the Commission may take any action which the Commission is authorized
 to take by this section.
 (d) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
 manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
 the United States.
SEC. 1208. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) PREPARATION OF STUDY- The Commission shall prepare a study of historically
 significant sites and structures in the United States associated with the
 Civil War, other than Shenandoah Valley Civil War sites. Such study shall
 identify the sites, determine the relative significance of such sites, assess
 short- and long-term threats to their integrity, and provide alternatives
 for the preservation and interpretation of such sites by Federal, State
 and local governments, or other public or private entities, as may be
 appropriate. The Commission shall research and propose innovative open
 space and land preservation techniques. Such alternatives may include but
 shall not be limited to designation as units of the National Park System or
 as affiliated areas. The study may include existing units of the National
 Park System.
 (b) CONSULTATION- During the preparation of the study referred to in
 subsection (a), the Commission shall consult with the Governors of
 affected States, affected units of local government, State and local
 historic preservation organizations, scholarly organizations, and such
 other interested parties as the Commission deems advisable.
 (c) TRANSMITTAL TO THE SECRETARY AND CONGRESS- Not later than 2 years
 after the date that funds are made available for the study referred to in
 subsection (a), the Commission shall transmit such study to the Secretary
 and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States
 House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 of the United States Senate.
 (d) REPORT- Whenever the Commission submits a report of the study to the
 Secretary or the Office of Management and Budget, it shall concurrently
 transmit copies of that report to the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate.
SEC. 1209. REVISION OF THEMATIC FRAMEWORK.
 In coordination with the major scholarly and professional organizations
 associated with the disciplines of history, archeology, architecture,
 and closely related fields, the Secretary shall undertake a complete
 revision of the National Park Service `Thematic Framework' to reflect
 current scholarship and research on (1) American history and culture, (2)
 historic and prehistoric archeology, and (3) architecture. The revision
 shall be transmitted to the United States House of Representatives Committee
 on Interior and Insular Affairs and the United States Senate Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources not later than 18 months after the date of
 enactment of this Act. In making such revision, the Secretary shall ensure
 that the full diversity of American history and prehistory are represented
 in the revised `Thematic Framework'.
SEC. 1210. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums not to exceed
 $2,000,000 to carry out the purposes of this title.
SEC. 1211. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADVISORY BOARD.
 Section 3 of the Act of August 21, 1935, entitled `An Act to provide for the
 preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities
 of national significance, and for other purposes' (16 U.S.C. 461-467;
 49 Stat. 666 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `twelve' and inserting `sixteen';
 (B) by striking `United States,' and inserting `United States who have a
 demonstrated commitment to the National Park System,'; and
 (C) by striking `and natural science,' and inserting `anthropology, biology,
 geology, and related disciplines,';
 (2) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following: `Such board
 shall also provide recommendations on the designation of national historic
 landmarks and national natural landmarks. Such board is strongly encouraged
 to consult with the major scholarly and professional organizations in the
 appropriate disciplines in making such recommendations.';
 (3) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by striking `1990' and inserting
 `1995'; and
 (4) in the second sentence of subsection (b), by striking `In' and inserting
 `The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act
 (the Act of October 6, 1972; 86 Stat. 776) are hereby waived with respect
 to the Board, but in'.
SEC. 1212. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADVISORY COUNCIL.
 Section 3 of the Act of August 21, 1935, entitled `An Act to provide for the
 preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities
 of national significance, and for other purposes' (16 U.S.C. 461-467;
 49 Stat. 666 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) There is hereby established the National Park Service Advisory
 Council (hereafter in this section referred to as the `advisory council')
 which shall provide advice and counsel to the National Park System
 Advisory Board. Membership on the advisory council shall be limited to
 those individuals whose term on the advisory board has expired. Such
 individuals may serve as long as they remain active except that not more
 than 12 members may serve on the advisory council at any one time. Members
 of the advisory council shall not have a vote on the National Park System
 Advisory Board. Members of the advisory council shall receive no salary but
 may be paid expenses incidental to travel when engaged in discharging their
 duties as members. Initially, the Secretary shall choose 12 former members
 of the Advisory Board to constitute the advisory council. In so doing,
 the Secretary shall consider their professional expertise and demonstrated
 commitment to the National Park System and to the Advisory Board.'.
 SEC. 1213. The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this title referred to
 as the `Secretary') is authorized and directed to conduct a systematic and
 comprehensive review of certain aspects of the National Park System and to
 submit on a periodic basis but not later than every 3 years a report to the
 Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations
 of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and
 Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the United States
 Senate on the findings of such review, together with such recommendations
 as the Secretary determines necessary. The first report shall be submitted
 no later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
 SEC. 1214. In conducting and preparing the report referred to in section 1,
 the Secretary shall consult with appropriate officials of affected Federal,
 State and local agencies, together with national, regional, and local
 organizations, including but not limited to holding such public hearings
 as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide a full opportunity
 for public comment.
 SEC. 1215. The report shall contain--
 (a) A comprehensive listing of all authorized but unacquired lands within
 the exterior boundaries of each unit of the National Park System as of the
 date of enactment.
 (b) A priority listing of all such unacquired parcels by individual park
 unit and for the National Park System as a whole. The list shall describe
 the acreage and ownership of each parcel, the estimated cost of acquisition
 for each parcel (subject to any statutory acquisition limitations for such
 lands), and the basis for such estimate.
 (c) An analysis and evaluation of the current and future needs of each
 unit of the National Park System for resource management, interpretation,
 construction, operation and maintenance, personnel, housing, together with
 an estimate of the costs thereof.
 SEC. 1216. Within one year after the date of enactment, the Secretary shall
 develop criteria to evaluate any proposed changes to the existing boundaries
 of individual park units including--
 (a) analysis of whether or not the existing boundary provides for the
 adequate protection and preservation of the natural, historic, cultural,
 scenic and recreational resources integral to the unit;
 (b) an evaluation of each parcel proposed for addition or deletion to the
 unit based on the analysis under paragraph (1);
 (c) an assessment of the impact of potential boundary adjustments taking
 into consideration the factors in paragraph (c) as well as the effect of
 the adjustments on the local communities and surrounding area.
 SEC. 1217. In proposing any boundary change after the date of enactment of
 this section, the Secretary shall--
 (a) consult with affected agencies of State and local governments surrounding
 communities, affected landowners and private national, regional, and local
 organizations;
 (b) apply the criteria developed pursuant to section 1216 and accompany
 this proposal with a statement reflecting the results of the application
 of such criteria;
 (c) include with such proposal an estimate of the cost for acquisition
 of any parcels proposed for acquisition together with the basis for the
 estimate and a statement on the relative priority for the acquisition of
 each parcel within the priorities for acquisition of other lands for such
 unit and for the National Park System.
TITLE XIII
 SEC. 1301. This Act may be cited as the `Clarks Fork Wild and Scenic River
 Designation Act of 1990'.
SEC. 1302. DESIGNATION OF RIVER.
 Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), as
 amended, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
 `( ) CLARKS FORK, WYOMING- (A) The twenty and five-tenths-mile segment
 from the west boundary of section 3, township 56 north, range 106 west at
 the Crandall Creek Bridge downstream to the north boundary of section 13,
 township 56 north, range 104 west at Clarks Fork Canyon; to be administered by
 the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river. Notwithstanding subsection (b),
 the boundary of the segment shall include all land within four hundred and
 forty yards from the ordinary high water mark on both sides of the river. No
 land or interest in land may be acquired with respect to the segment without
 the consent of the owner thereof. For the purposes of carrying out this
 paragraph, there is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for development
 and $750,000 for the acquisition of land and interests therein.
 `(B) Designation of a segment of the Clarks Fork by this paragraph as a
 component of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System shall not be utilized in any
 Federal proceeding, whether concerning a license, permit, right-of-way,
 or any other Federal action, as a reason or basis to prohibit the
 development or operation of any water impoundment, diversion facility, or
 hydroelectric power and transmission facility located entirely downstream
 from the segment of the river designated by this paragraph: Provided, That
 water from any development shall not intrude upon such segment. Congress
 finds that development of water impoundments, diversion facilities, and
 hydroelectric power and transmission facilities located entirely downstream
 from the segment of the river is not incompatible with its designation as
 a component of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
 `(C) The Secretary of Agriculture is directed to apply for the
 quantification of the water right reserved by the inclusion of a portion
 of the Clarks Fork in the Wild and Scenic Rivers System in accordance
 with the procedural requirements of the laws of the State of Wyoming:
 Provided, That, notwithstanding any provision of the laws of the State of
 Wyoming otherwise applicable to the granting and exercise of water rights,
 the purposes for which the Clarks Fork is designated, as set forth in this
 Act and this paragraph, are declared to be beneficial uses and the priority
 date of such right shall be the date of enactment of this paragraph.
 `(D) The comprehensive management plan developed under subsection (d) for
 the segment designated by this paragraph shall provide for all such measures
 as may be necessary in the control of fire, insects, and diseases to fully
 protect the values for which the segment is designated as a wild river.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.