 
--H.R.293--
H.R.293
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To direct the completion of the research recommended by the Technical
Study Group on Cigarette and Little Cigar Fire Safety and to provide for an
assessment of the practicality of a cigarette fire safety performance standard.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Fire Safe Cigarette Act
 of 1990'.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) cigarette-ignited fires are the leading cause of fire deaths in the
 United States,
 (2) in 1987, there were 1,492 deaths from cigarette-ignited fires, 3,809
 serious injuries, and $395,000,000 in property damage caused by such fires,
 (3) the final report of the Technical Study Group on Cigarette and Little
 Cigar Fire Safety under the Cigarette Safety Act of 1984 determined that
 (A) it is technically feasible and may be commercially feasible to develop
 a cigarette that will have a significantly reduced propensity to ignite
 furniture and mattresses, and (B) the overall impact on other aspects of
 the United States society and economy may be minimal,
 (4) the final report of the Technical Study Group on Cigarette and Little
 Cigar Fire Safety under the Cigarette Safety Act of 1984 further determined
 that the value of a cigarette with less of a likelihood to ignite furniture
 and mattresses which would prevent property damage and personal injury and
 loss of life is economically incalculable,
 (5) it is appropriate for the Congress to require by law the completion
 of the research described in the final report of the Technical Study
 Group on Cigarette and Little Cigar Fire Safety and an assessment of the
 practicability of developing a performance standard to reduce cigarette
 ignition propensity, and
 (6) it is appropriate for the Consumer Product Safety Commission to utilize
 its expertise to complete the recommendations for further work and report
 to Congress in a timely fashion.
SEC. 2. COMPLETION OF FIRE SAFETY RESEARCH.
 (a) CENTER FOR FIRE RESEARCH- At the request of the Consumer Product Safety
 Commission, the National Institute for Standards and Technology's Center
 for Fire Research shall--
 (1) develop a standard test method to determine cigarette ignition propensity,
 (2) compile performance data for cigarettes using the standard test method
 developed under paragraph (1), and
 (3) conduct laboratory studies on and computer modeling of ignition physics
 to develop valid, user-friendly predictive capability.
The Commission shall make such request not later than the expiration of 30
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (b) COMMISSION- The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall--
 (1) design and implement a study to collect baseline and followup data about
 the characteristics of cigarettes, products ignited, and smokers involved
 in fires, and
 (2) develop information on societal costs of cigarette-ignited fires.
 (c) HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES- The Consumer Product Safety Commission,
 in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall
 develop information on changes in the toxicity of smoke and resultant health
 effects from cigarette prototypes. The Commission shall not obligate more
 than $50,000 to develop such information.
SEC. 3. ADVISORY GROUP.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the Technical Advisory Group to
 advise and work with the Consumer Product Safety Commission and National
 Institute for Standards and Technology's Center for Fire Research on the
 implementation of this Act. The Technical Advisory Group may hold hearings
 to develop information to carry out its functions. The Technical Advisory
 Group shall terminate 1 month after the submission of the final report of
 the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission under section 4.
 (b) MEMBERS- The Technical Advisory Group shall consist of the same
 individuals appointed to the Technical Study Group on Cigarette and Little
 Cigar Fire Safety under section 3(a) of the Cigarette Safety Act of 1984. If
 such an individual is unavailable to serve on the Technical Advisory Group,
 the entity which such individual represented on such Technical Study Group
 shall submit to the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission the
 name of another individual to be appointed by the Chairman to represent
 such group on the Technical Advisory Group.
SEC. 4. REPORTS.
 The Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, in consultation
 with the Technical Advisory Group, shall submit to Congress three reports on
 the activities undertaken under section 2 as follows: The first such report
 shall be made not later than 13 months after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the second such report shall be made not later than 25 months
 after such date, and the final such report shall be made not later than 36
 months after such date.
SEC. 5. CONFIDENTIALITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Any information provided to the National Institute for
 Standards and Technology's Center for Fire Research, to the Consumer Product
 Safety Commission, or to the Technical Advisory Group under section 2 which
 is designated as trade secret or confidential information shall be treated
 as trade secret or confidential information subject to section 552(b)(4)
 of title 5, United States Code, and section 1905 of title 18, United States
 Code, and shall not be revealed, except as provided under subsection (b). No
 member or employee of the Center for Fire Research, the Consumer Product
 Safety Commission, or the Technical Advisory Group and no person assigned
 to or consulting with the Center for Fire Research, the Consumer Product
 Safety Commission, or the Technical Advisory Group, shall disclose any such
 information to any person who is not a member or employee of, assigned to,
 or consulting with, the Center for Fire Research, Consumer Product Safety
 Commission, or the Technical Advisory Group unless the person submitting
 such information specifically and in writing authorizes such disclosure.
 (b) CONSTRUCTION- Subsection (a) does not authorize the withholding of
 any information from any duly authorized subcommittee or committee of
 the Congress, except that if a subcommittee or committee of the Congress
 requests the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the National Institute
 for Standards and Technology's Center for Fire Research, or the Technical
 Advisory Group to provide such information, the Commission, the Center
 for Fire Research, or Technical Advisory Group shall notify the person who
 provided the information of such a request in writing.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.