 
--H.R.3888--
H.R.3888
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To allow a certain parcel of land in Rockingham County, Virginia, to be used
for a
child care center.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ADDITIONAL USE AUTHORIZED.
 Subject to the requirements of this Act, the County of Rockingham,
 Commonwealth of Virginia, hereafter referred to as `the county', is authorized
 to permit use of the land described in section 3, hereafter referred to
 as `the land', for purposes of a child care center, notwithstanding the
 restrictions on use of such land otherwise applicable under the terms of
 the conveyance of such land to the county by the United States.
SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) A use permitted under this Act shall be confined to buildings in existence
 as of the date of enactment of this Act (which may be appropriately modified
 or altered so as to meet other applicable requirements of law) and shall
 involve fencing or enclosing of no more than 3,500 square feet of the open
 space portions of the lands, and shall not preclude use of any of the land
 for other permissible purposes, subject to reasonable restrictions necessary
 to allow a use authorized under this Act.
 (b) The authority of the county under this Act shall be limited to the
 authorization of use of the land by a child care center serving children
 without regard to their race, creed, color, national origin, physical or
 mental disability, or sex, operated by a nonsectarian organization on a
 nonprofit basis and in compliance with all applicable requirements of the
 laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia.
 (c) Except as specified in this Act, this Act shall not increase or diminish
 the authority or responsibility of the county with respect to the land.
 (d)(1) If the county, pursuant to this Act, authorizes use of the lands
 for a child care center, the county shall include information concerning
 such use in the biennial reports to the Secretary of the Interior required
 under the terms of the conveyance of the land to the county by the United
 States and shall also provide a copy of such information to appropriate
 officials of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia responsible
 for implementation of laws concerning the operation of child care centers.
 (2) Any violation of the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be a breach
 of the conditions and covenants under which the lands were conveyed to the
 county by the United States, and shall have the same effect, as provided
 in the deed whereby the United States conveyed the lands to the county.
SEC. 3. LAND DESCRIPTION.
 The land referred to in sections 1 and 2 is that parcel comprised of
 approximately 3.03 acres of land transferred by the United States on April
 11, 1989, to the county of Rockingham, Virginia, in deed book number 953
 at page 600, together with improvements thereon.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.