 
--H.R.2978--
H.R.2978
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend section 700 of title 18, United States Code, to protect the physical
integrity
of the flag.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Flag Protection Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. CRIMINAL PENALTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE PHYSICAL INTEGRITY OF THE
UNITED STATES FLAG.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subsection (a) of section 700 of title 18, United States
 Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) Whoever knowingly mutilates, defaces, physically defiles, burns,
 maintains on the floor or ground, or tramples upon any flag of the United
 States shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for not more than one
 year, or both.
 `(2) This subsection does not prohibit any conduct consisting of the disposal
 of a flag when it has become worn or soiled.'.
 (b) DEFINITION- Section 700(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(b) As used in this section, the term `flag of the United States' means
 any flag of the United States, or any part thereof, made of any substance,
 of any size, in a form that is commonly displayed.'.
SEC. 3. EXPEDITED REVIEW OF CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES.
 Section 700 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(d)(1) An appeal may be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the United
 States from any interlocutory or final judgment, decree, or order issued by a
 United States district court ruling upon the constitutionality of subsection
 (a).
 `(2) The Supreme Court shall, if it has not previously ruled on the question,
 accept jurisdiction over the appeal and advance on the docket and expedite
 to the greatest extent possible.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate. the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend section 700 of title 18, United States Code, to protect the physical
integrity
of the flag.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of t