 
--H.R.5209--
H.R.5209
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend title 39, United States Code, to make nonmailable any unsolicited
sample of a drug or  other hazardous household substance which does not meet
child-resistant packaging requirements, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Drug and Household Substance Mailing Act
  of 1990'.
SEC. 2. MEASURES TO PREVENT INDIVIDUALS FROM BEING INVOLUNTARILY EXPOSED TO
POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES RECEIVED THROUGH THE MAILS.
 Section 3001 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by redesignating
 subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (h) and (i), respectively, and by
 inserting after subsection (e) the following:
 `(f) Any matter which is unsolicited by the addressee, which contains a
 `household substance' (as defined by section 2 of the Poison Prevention
 Packaging Act of 1970), and which does not comply with the requirements
 for special child-resistant packaging established for that substance by
 the Consumer Product Safety Commission, is nonmailable matter, shall not
 be carried or delivered by mail, and shall be disposed of as the Postal
 Service directs.
 `(g)(1) Matter otherwise legally acceptable in the mails which contains
 or includes a fragrance advertising sample is nonmailable matter, shall
 not be carried or delivered by mail, and shall be disposed of as the Postal
 Service directs, unless the sample is sealed, wrapped, treated, or otherwise
 prepared in a manner reasonably designed to prevent individuals from being
 unknowingly or involuntarily exposed to the sample.
 `(2) The Postal Service shall by regulation establish the standards or
 requirements which a fragrance advertising sample must satisfy in order
 for the mail matter involved not to be considered nonmailable under this
 subsection.'.
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 180 days after the date
 of enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to any matter mailed
 on or after that effective date.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.