 
--H.R.2748--
H.R.2748
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1990 for intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the
Intelligence Community Staff, and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
 `Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990'.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 101. Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
 1990 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities
 of the following elements of the United States Government:
 (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
 (2) The Department of Defense.
 (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
 (4) The National Security Agency.
 (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department
 of the Air Force.
 (6) The Department of State.
 (7) The Department of the Treasury.
 (8) The Department of Energy.
 (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 (10) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS
 SEC. 102. The amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 101, and
 the authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 1990, for the conduct
 of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the elements
 listed in such section, are those specified in the classified Schedule of
 Authorizations prepared by the Committee of Conference to accompany H.R. 2748
 of the One Hundred First Congress. That Schedule of Authorizations shall be
 made available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and House
 of Representatives and to the President. The President shall provide for
 suitable distribution of the schedule, or of appropriate portions of the
 schedule, within the executive branch.
PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS
 SEC. 103. The Director of Central Intelligence may authorize employment of
 civilian personnel in excess of the numbers authorized for fiscal year 1990
 under sections 102 and 202 of this Act when he determines that such action
 is necessary to the performance of important intelligence functions, except
 that such number may not, for any element of the intelligence community,
 exceed 2 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under
 such sections for such element. The Director of Central Intelligence shall
 promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House
 of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate
 whenever he exercises the authority granted by this section.
RESTRICTION ON SUPPORT FOR MILITARY OR PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
 SEC. 104. Funds available to the Central Intelligence Agency, the Department
 of Defense, or any other agency or entity of the United States may be
 obligated and expended during fiscal year 1990 to provide funds, materiel, or
 other assistance to the Nicaraguan democratic resistance to support military
 or paramilitary operations in Nicaragua only as authorized in section 101
 and as specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
 in section 102, or pursuant to section 502 of the National Security Act of
 1947, or pursuant to any provision of law specifically providing such funds,
 materiel, or assistance.
TITLE II--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 201. There is authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
 Community Staff for fiscal year 1990 the sum of $26,900,000.
AUTHORIZATION OF PERSONNEL END STRENGTH
 SEC. 202. (a) The Intelligence Community Staff is authorized 240 full-time
 personnel as of September 30, 1990. Such personnel of the Intelligence
 Community Staff may be permanent employees of the Intelligence Community Staff
 or personnel detailed from other elements of the United States Government.
 (b) During fiscal year 1990, personnel of the Intelligence Community
 Staff shall be selected so as to provide appropriate representation from
 elements of the United States Government engaged in intelligence and
 intelligence-related activities.
 (c) During fiscal year 1990, any officer or employee of the United States or
 a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to the Intelligence Community
 Staff from another element of the United States Government shall be detailed
 on a reimbursable basis, except that any such officer, employee, or member
 may be detailed on a nonreimbursable basis for a period of less than one
 year for the performance of temporary functions as required by the Director
 of Central Intelligence.
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF ADMINISTERED IN SAME MANNER AS CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
 SEC. 203. During fiscal year 1990, activities and personnel of the
 Intelligence Community Staff shall be subject to the provisions of the
 National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) and the Central
 Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.) in the same manner
 as activities and personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency.
TITLE III--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM AND
RELATED PROVISIONS
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 301. There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 1990 the sum of
 $154,900,000.
ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNUITY
 SEC. 302. The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain
 Employees is amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 236 as section 237; and
 (2) by inserting after section 235 the following new section:
`ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNUITY
 `SEC. 236. A participant must complete, within the last two years before any
 separation from service, except a separation because of death or disability,
 at least one year of creditable civilian service during which he or she
 is subject to this title before he or she or his or her survivors are
 eligible for an annuity under this title based on the separation. If a
 participant, except a participant separated from the service because of
 death or disability, fails to meet the service requirement of the preceding
 sentence, the amounts deducted from his or her pay during the period for
 which no eligibility is established based on the separation shall be returned
 to him or her on the separation. Failure to meet this service requirement
 does not deprive the individual or his or her survivors of annuity rights
 which attached on a previous separation.'.
PRECEDENCE OF SECTION 224 SURVIVOR BENEFITS OVER SECTION 232 DEATH-IN-SERVICE
BENEFITS
 SEC. 303. Section 232(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act
 of 1964 for Certain Employees is amended--
 (1) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) thereof the following new sentence:
 `Payment of death-in-service benefits for former spouses is also subject
 to paragraph (4) of this subsection.'; and
 (2) by adding after paragraph (3) thereof the following:
 `(4) If a former spouse eligible for death-in-service benefits under
 provisions of this section is or becomes eligible for survivor benefits
 under section 224, the benefits provided under this section will not be
 payable and will be superseded by the benefits provided in section 224.'.
COMPUTATION OF SURVIVOR BENEFIT FOR FORMER SPOUSES
 SEC. 304. (a) Section 224(a)(2) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
 Act of 1964 for Certain Employees is amended by striking out `and also by
 an amount' and all that follows through `by the United States'.
 (b) The amendment made by this section shall be effective as of October
 1, 1986.
SPECIAL ANNUITY COMPUTATION RULES FOR CERTAIN CIA EMPLOYEES' SERVICE ABROAD
 SEC. 305. The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SPECIAL ANNUITY COMPUTATION RULES FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES' SERVICE ABROAD
 `SEC. 18. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 83 of title 5,
 United States Code, the annuity under subchapter III of such chapter of an
 officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency who retires on or
 after October 1, 1989, is not designated under section 203 of the Central
 Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, and has
 served abroad as an officer or employee of the Agency on or after January 1,
 1987, shall be computed as provided in subsection (b).
 `(b)(1) The portion of the annuity relating to such service abroad that is
 actually performed at any time during the officer's or employee's first ten
 years of total service shall be computed at the rate and using the percent
 of average pay specified in section 8339(a)(3) of title 5, United States
 Code, that is normally applicable only to so much of an employee's total
 service as exceeds ten years.
 `(2) The portion of the annuity relating to service abroad as described
 in subsection (a) but that is actually performed at any time after the
 officer's or employee's first ten years of total service shall be computed
 as provided in section 8339(a)(3) of title 5, United States Code; but, in
 addition, the officer or employee shall be deemed for annuity computation
 purposes to have actually performed an equivalent period of service abroad
 during his or her first ten years of total service, and in calculating
 the portion of the officer's or employee's annuity for his or her first
 ten years of total service, the computation rate and percent of average
 pay specified in paragraph (1) shall also be applied to the period of such
 deemed or equivalent service abroad.
 `(3) The portion of the annuity relating to other service by an officer
 or employee as described in subsection (a) shall be computed as provided
 in the provisions of section 8339(a) of title 5, United States Code, that
 would otherwise be applicable to such service.
 `(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `total service' has the
 meaning given such term under chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
 `(c) For purposes of subsections (f) through (m) of section 8339 of title 5,
 United States Code, an annuity computed under this section shall be deemed
 to be an annuity computed under subsections (a) and (o) of section 8339 of
 title 5, United States Code.
 `(d) The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to an
 officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency who would otherwise
 be entitled to a greater annuity computed under an otherwise applicable
 subsection of section 8339 of title 5, United States Code.'.
PORTABILITY OF OVERSEAS SERVICE RETIREMENT BENEFIT
 SEC. 306. The special accrual rates provided by section 303 of the Central
 Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees and by
 section 18 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 for computation
 of the annuity of an individual who has served abroad as an officer or
 employee of the Central Intelligence Agency shall be used to compute that
 portion of the annuity of such individual relating to such service abroad
 whether or not the individual is employed by the Central Intelligence Agency
 at the time of retirement from Federal service.
DISABILITY RETIREMENT AND DEATH-IN-SERVICE BENEFITS
 SEC. 307. (a) The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended (50
 U.S.C. 403a et seq.), is amended by adding after section 18 the following
 new section:
`SPECIAL RULES FOR DISABILITY RETIREMENT AND DEATH-IN-SERVICE BENEFITS WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN EMPLOYEES
 `SEC. 19. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or
 employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
 coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States
 Code, who--
 `(i) has five years of civilian service credit toward retirement under such
 subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code;
 `(ii) has not been designated under section 203 of the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended (50 U.S.C. 403
 note), as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and
 Disability System;
 `(iii) has become disabled during a period of assignment to the performance
 of duties that are qualifying toward such designation under section 203; and
 `(iv) satisfies the requirements for disability retirement under section
 8337 of title 5, United States Code--
shall, upon his own application or upon order of the Director, be retired on
an annuity computed in accordance with the rules prescribed in such section
231, in lieu of an annuity computed as provided by section 8337 of title 5,
United States Code.
 `(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an officer
 or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
 coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code,
 who--
 `(i) has at least eighteen months of civilian service credit toward retirement
 under such subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code;
 `(ii) has not been designated under section 203 of the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended (50 U.S.C. 403
 note), as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and
 Disability System;
 `(iii) prior to separation or retirement from the Agency, dies during
 a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying
 toward such designation under such section 203; and
 `(iv) is survived by a widow or widower, former spouse, and/or a child or
 children as defined in section 204 and section 232 of the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, who would otherwise
 be entitled to an annuity under section 8341 of title 5, United States Code--
such widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or children of such officer
or employee shall be entitled to an annuity computed in accordance with such
section 232, in lieu of an annuity computed in accordance with section 8341
of title 5, United States Code.
 `(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or employee
 of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system coverage
 under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, who--
 `(i) has completed at least eighteen months of civilian service creditable
 under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code;
 `(ii) has not been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
 Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
 (50 U.S.C. 403 note);
 `(iii) has become disabled during a period of assignment to the performance
 of duties that are qualifying toward such designation pursuant to such
 section; and
 `(iv) satisfies the requirements for disability retirement under subchapter
 V of chapter 84, title 5, United States Code--
shall, on the officer's or employee's own application or an application by
the Director, be retired on an annuity computed as if the officer or employee,
prior to becoming disabled, had been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees,
as amended (50 U.S.C. 403 note), in lieu of the annuity amount that would
otherwise be computed under subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5, United
States Code.
 `(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an officer
 or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
 coverage under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, who--
 `(i) has at least eighteen months of civilian service creditable under
 section 8411 of title 5, United States Code;
 `(ii) has not been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
 Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
 (50 U.S.C. 403 note);
 `(iii) prior to separation or retirement from the Agency, dies during
 a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying
 toward such designation pursuant to such section; and
 `(iv) is survived by a widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or
 children as defined in section 8441 of title 5, United States Code, who
 would be entitled to a lump-sum survivor benefit, a survivor annuity and/or
 if applicable, a supplementary annuity, under subchapter IV of chapter 84,
 title 5, United States Code--
the survivor benefit or benefits of such widow or widower, former spouse,
and/or child or children shall be computed as if the officer or employee,
prior to death, had been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
(50 U.S.C. 403 note), in lieu of the benefit amount or amounts that would
otherwise be computed pursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 84, title 5,
United States Code.
 `(e)(1) The annuities provided under subsections (a) and (b) of this section
 shall be deemed to be annuities under chapter 83 of title 5, United States
 Code, for purposes of the other provisions of such chapter and other laws
 (including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) relating to such annuities,
 and shall be payable from the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and
 Disability Fund established by section 202 of the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.
 `(2) The annuities and/or other benefits provided under subsections (c)
 and (d) of this section shall be deemed to be annuities and/or benefits
 under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of the other
 provisions of such chapter and other laws (including the Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986) relating to such annuities and/or benefits, but shall be
 payable from the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund
 established by section 202 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
 Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.'.
 (b) The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain
 Employees is amended by adding at the end of title II the following new
 section:
`PAYMENTS FROM CIARDS FUND FOR PORTIONS OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT
SYSTEM ANNUITIES
 `SEC. 295. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount of the
 increase in any annuity that results from the application of section 18
 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, if and when such increase
 is based on an individual's overseas service as an employee of the Central
 Intelligence Agency, shall be paid from the fund.'.
TITLE IV--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
REMOTE SENSING PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY
 SEC. 401. In the performance of its functions, the Central Intelligence Agency
 may use its funds to procure commercial remote sensing data by whatever
 means the Agency deems to be appropriate notwithstanding any provision of
 law directing the procurement of such data through other Government agencies.
TITLE V--IMPROVEMENTS TO PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES FOR INTELLIGENCE COMPONENTS
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
SPECIAL PAY FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
 SEC. 501. (a)(1) Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 1592. Foreign language proficiency: special pay
 `(a) The Secretary of Defense may pay special pay under this section to a
 civilian officer or employee of the Department of Defense who--
 `(1) has been certified as being proficient in a foreign language
 identified by the Secretary of Defense as being a language in which
 proficiency by civilian personnel of the Department is important for the
 effective collection, production, or dissemination of foreign intelligence
 information; and
 `(2) is serving in a position, or is subject to assignment to a position,
 in which proficiency in that language facilitates performance of officially
 assigned intelligence or intelligence-related duties.
 `(b) The annual rate of special pay under subsection (a) shall be determined
 by the Secretary of Defense.
 `(c) Special pay under this section may be paid in addition to any
 compensation authorized under section 1604(b) of this title for which an
 officer or employee is eligible.'.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`1592. Foreign language proficiency: special pay.'.
 (b) Section 1592 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection
 (a), shall take effect on the first day of the first pay period beginning
 on or after the later of--
 (1) October 1, 1989, or
 (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COLLEGE GIFT ACCEPTANCE AUTHORITY
 SEC. 502. (a) Chapter 155 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 2607. Acceptance of gifts for the Defense Intelligence College
 `(a) The Secretary of Defense may accept, hold, administer, and use any gift
 (including any gift of an interest in real property) made for the purpose of
 aiding and facilitating the work of the Defense Intelligence College and may
 pay all necessary expenses in connection with the acceptance of such a gift.
 `(b) Money, and proceeds from the sale of property, received as a gift under
 subsection (a) shall be deposited in the Treasury and shall be available
 for disbursement upon the order of the Secretary of Defense to the extent
 provided in annual appropriation Acts.
 `(c) Subsection (c) of section 2601 of this title applies to property that
 is accepted under subsection (a) in the same manner that such subsection
 applies to property that is accepted under subsection (a) of that section.
 `(d) In this section, the term `gift' includes a bequest of personal property
 or a devise of real property.'.
 (b) The table of sections at the beginning of that chapter is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`2607. Acceptance of gifts for the Defense Intelligence College.'.
PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO TERMINATE EMPLOYMENT OF CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS
AND EMPLOYEES OF MILITARY DEPARTMENTS AND OF THE DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
 SEC. 503. (a) Section 1590(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended
 by striking out `, during fiscal years 1988 and 1989,'.
 (b) Section 1604(e)(1) of such title is amended by striking out `, during
 fiscal years 1988 and 1989,'.
DEFENSE ATTACHE DEATH GRATUITY
 SEC. 504. (a) During fiscal year 1990, the Secretary of Defense may pay a
 death gratuity identical to that payable under section 1489(b) of title 10,
 United States Code, to the surviving dependents of a member of the Armed
 Forces who, while serving on active duty assigned to a Defense attache
 office outside the United States, died as a result of hostile or terrorist
 activities.
 (b) The death gratuity referred to in subsection (a) may be paid with
 respect to an individual who died on or after June 15, 1988.
 (c) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress no later than March
 1, 1990, a report concerning the advisability of permanent law permitting
 the payment of death gratuities to the survivors of any member of the
 armed services who, while on active duty assigned to a Defense attache
 office outside the United States, dies as a result of hostile or terrorist
 activities.
SPECIAL ANNUITY COMPUTATION RULES FOR PERIODS OF SERVICE ABROAD FOR CERTAIN
DIA AND NSA EMPLOYEES
 SEC. 505. (a) Section 1605(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking out `who are subject to chapter 84 of title 5,' in the last
 sentence; and
 (2) by striking out the period at the end and inserting in lieu thereof
 `and in section 18 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949.'.
 (b) Section 9(b) of the National Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402
 note) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `(including special' and all that
 follows through `note)); and' and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon;
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) special retirement accrual in the same manner provided in section 303 of
 the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees
 (50 U.S.C. 403 note) and in section 18 of the Central Intelligence Agency
 Act of 1949.'.
REQUIREMENTS FOR CITIZENSHIP FOR STAFF OF UNITED STATES ARMY RUSSIAN INSTITUTE
 SEC. 506. (a) For purposes of section 319(c) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1430(c)), the United States Army Russian Institute,
 located in Garmisch, Federal Republic of Germany, shall be considered to
 be an organization described in clause (1) of this section.
 (b) Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to periods of employment before,
 on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (c) No more than two persons per year may be naturalized based on the
 provisions of subsection (a).
 (d) Each instance of naturalization based on the provisions of subsection
 (a) shall be reported to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and
 House of Representatives and to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
 Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of
 Representatives prior to such naturalization.
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACQUISITION OF CRITICAL SKILLS
 SEC. 507. (a)(1) Chapter 83 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 1608. Financial assistance to certain employees in acquisition of
critical skills
 `(a) The Secretary of Defense shall establish an undergraduate training
 program with respect to civilian employees of the Defense Intelligence Agency
 that is similar in purpose, conditions, content, and administration to the
 program which the Secretary of Defense is authorized to establish under
 section 16 of the National Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 note)
 for civilian employees of the National Security Agency.
 `(b) Any payments made by the Secretary to carry out the program required
 to be established by subsection (a) may be made in any fiscal year only to
 the extent that appropriated funds are available for that purpose.'.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of that chapter is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`1608. Financial assistance to certain employees in acquisition of critical
skills.'.
 (b) Section 1608 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection
 (a), shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE VI--FBI NEW YORK FIELD DIVISION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
FBI NEW YORK FIELD DIVISION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
 SEC. 601. (a) Section 601(a)(2) of the Intelligence Authorization Act,
 Fiscal Year 1989 is amended by striking out `who are subject by policy and
 practice to directed geographical transfer or reassignment'.
 (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 1989.
 (c) In preparing for submission to the Congress the Budget of the United
 States for Fiscal Year 1991, the President shall take into account and, to the
 greatest extent possible, incorporate into such budget the recommendations
 of the National Advisory Commission on Law Enforcement as established by
 section 6160 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.
PERSONNEL CEILING ON UNITED STATES AND SOVIET MISSIONS
 SEC. 602. It is the sense of the Congress that the ceiling on permanent
 positions at the United States Mission to the Soviet Union and the Soviet
 Mission to the United States should not be increased unless--
 (a) the President determines that such increase is essential to the effective
 functioning of the United States Mission to the Soviet Union; and
 (b) the FBI is provided sufficient additional resources to fulfill its
 responsibilities resulting from the increased number of permanent positions
 at the Soviet Mission to the United States.
FBI INVESTIGATIONS OF ESPIONAGE BY PERSONS EMPLOYED BY OR ASSIGNED TO UNITED
STATES DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD
 SEC. 603. Subject to the authority of the Attorney General, the FBI shall
 supervise the conduct of all investigations of violations of the espionage
 laws of the United States by persons employed by or assigned to United
 States diplomatic missions abroad. All departments and agencies shall report
 immediately to the FBI any information concerning such a violation. All
 departments and agencies shall provide appropriate assistance to the FBI
 in the conduct of such investigations. Nothing in this provision shall be
 construed as establishing a defense to any criminal, civil, or administrative
 action.
TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS
INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY LAW
 SEC. 701. Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement,
 and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional
 or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation
 or benefits authorized by law.
RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
 SEC. 702. The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed
 to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which
 is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
PRESIDENTIAL REPORT ON COORDINATION OF DRUG INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
 SEC. 703. Not later than April 1, 1990, the President shall submit to Congress
 a report describing how intelligence activities relating to narcotics
 trafficking can be integrated, including coordinating the collection and
 analysis of intelligence information, ensuring the dissemination of relevant
 intelligence information to officials with responsibility for narcotics policy
 and to agencies of the United States Government responsible for interdiction,
 eradication, law enforcement, and other counternarcotics activities, and
 coordinating and controlling all counternarcotics intelligence activities.
TITLE VIII--INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
 SEC. 801. Section 17 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
 U.S.C. 403q) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 17. INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE AGENCY.
 `(a) PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT- In order to--
 `(1) create an objective and effective office, appropriately accountable to
 Congress, to initiate and conduct independently inspections, investigations,
 and audits relating to programs and operations of the Agency;
 `(2) provide leadership and recommend policies designed to promote economy,
 efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of such programs and
 operations, and detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations;
 `(3) provide a means for keeping the Director fully and currently informed
 about problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of such
 programs and operations, and the necessity for and the progress of corrective
 actions; and
 `(4) in the manner prescribed by this section, ensure that the Senate
 Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee
 on Intelligence (hereafter in this section referred to collectively as
 the `intelligence committees') are kept similarly informed of significant
 problems and deficiencies as well as the necessity for and the progress of
 corrective actions,
there is hereby established in the Agency an Office of Inspector General
(hereafter in this section referred to as the `Office').
 `(b) APPOINTMENT; SUPERVISION; REMOVAL- (1) There shall be at the head of
 the Office an Inspector General who shall be appointed by the President,
 by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. This appointment shall
 be made without regard to political affiliation and shall be solely on the
 basis of integrity, compliance with the security standards of the Agency,
 and prior experience in the field of foreign intelligence. Such appointment
 shall also be made on the basis of demonstrated ability in accounting,
 financial analysis, law, management analysis, or public administration.
 `(2) The Inspector General shall report directly to and be under the general
 supervision of the Director.
 `(3) The Director may prohibit the Inspector General from initiating,
 carrying out, or completing any audit, inspection, or investigation if the
 Director determines that such prohibition is necessary to protect vital
 national security interests of the United States.
 `(4) If the Director exercises any power under paragraph (3), he shall submit
 an appropriately classified statement of the reasons for the exercise of
 such power within seven days to the intelligence committees. The Director
 shall advise the Inspector General at the time such report is submitted,
 and, to the extent consistent with the protection of intelligence sources
 and methods, provide the Inspector General with a copy of any such report. In
 such cases, the Inspector General may submit such comments to the intelligence
 committees that he considers appropriate.
 `(5) In accordance with section 535 of title 28, United States Code, the
 Director shall report to the Attorney General any information, allegation,
 or complaint received from the Inspector General, relating to violations
 of Federal criminal law involving any officer or employee of the Agency,
 consistent with such guidelines as may be issued by the Attorney General
 pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of such section. A copy of all such reports
 shall be furnished to the Inspector General.
 `(6) The Inspector General may be removed from office only by the
 President. The President shall immediately communicate in writing to the
 intelligence committees the reasons for any such removal.
 `(c) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES- It shall be the duty and responsibility
 of the Inspector General appointed under this section--
 `(1) to provide policy direction for, and to conduct, supervise, and
 coordinate independently, the inspections, investigations, and audits
 relating to the programs and operations of the Agency to ensure they are
 conducted efficiently and in accordance with applicable law and regulations;
 `(2) to keep the Director fully and currently informed concerning
 violations of law and regulations, fraud and other serious problems,
 abuses and deficiencies that may occur in such programs and operations,
 and to report the progress made in implementing corrective action;
 `(3) to take due regard for the protection of intelligence sources and
 methods in the preparation of all reports issued by the Office, and, to the
 extent consistent with the purpose and objective of such reports, take such
 measures as may be appropriate to minimize the disclosure of intelligence
 sources and methods described in such reports; and
 `(4) in the execution of his responsibilities, to comply with generally
 accepted government auditing standards.
 `(d) SEMIANNUAL REPORTS; IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF SERIOUS OR FLAGRANT PROBLEMS;
 REPORTS OF FUNCTIONAL PROBLEMS- (1) The Inspector General shall, not
 later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the
 Director of Central Intelligence a classified semiannual report summarizing
 the activities of the Office during the immediately preceding six-month
 period. Within thirty days, the Director shall transmit such reports to the
 intelligence committees with any comments he may deem appropriate. Such
 reports shall, at a minimum, include a list of the title or subject of
 each inspection, investigation, or audit conducted during the reporting
 period and--
 `(A) a description of significant problems, abuses, and deficiencies relating
 to the administration of programs and operations of the Agency identified
 by the Office during the reporting period;
 `(B) a description of the recommendations for corrective action made by the
 Office during the reporting period with respect to significant problems,
 abuses, or deficiencies identified in subparagraph (A);
 `(C) a statement of whether corrective action has been completed on each
 significant recommendation described in previous semiannual reports, and,
 in a case where corrective action has been completed, a description of such
 corrective action;
 `(D) a certification that the Inspector General has had full and direct
 access to all information relevant to the performance of his functions;
 `(E) a description of all cases occurring during the reporting period where
 the Inspector General could not obtain documentary evidence relevant to
 any inspection, audit, or investigation due to his lack of authority to
 subpoena such information; and
 `(F) such recommendations as the Inspector General may wish to make concerning
 legislation to promote economy and efficiency in the administration
 of programs and operations undertaken by the Agency, and to detect and
 eliminate fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.
 `(2) The Inspector General shall report immediately to the Director whenever
 he becomes aware of particularly serious or flagrant problems, abuses, or
 deficiencies relating to the administration of programs or operations. The
 Director shall transmit such report to the intelligence committees within
 seven calendar days, together with any comments he considers appropriate.
 `(3) In the event that--
 `(A) the Inspector General is unable to resolve any differences with the
 Director affecting the execution of the Inspector General's duties or
 responsibilities;
 `(B) an investigation, inspection, or audit carried out by the Inspector
 General should focus upon the Director or Acting Director; or
 `(C) the Inspector General, after exhausting all possible alternatives,
 is unable to obtain significant documentary information in the course of an
 investigation, the Inspector General shall immediately report such matter
 to the intelligence committees.
 `(4) Pursuant to Title V of the National Security Act of 1947, the Director
 shall submit to the intelligence committees any report of an inspection,
 investigation, or audit conducted by the office which has been requested
 by the Chairman or Ranking Minority Member of either committee.
 `(e) AUTHORITIES OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL- (1) The Inspector General shall
 have direct and prompt access to the Director when necessary for any purpose
 pertaining to the performance of his duties.
 `(2) The Inspector General shall have access to any employee or any employee
 of a contractor of the Agency whose testimony is needed for the performance of
 his duties. In addition, he shall have direct access to all records, reports,
 audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other material which
 relate to the programs and operations with respect to which the Inspector
 General has responsibilities under this section. Failure on the part of
 any employee or contractor to cooperate with the Inspector General shall be
 grounds for appropriate administrative actions by the Director, to include
 loss of employment or the termination of an existing contractual relationship.
 `(3) The Inspector General is authorized to receive and investigate complaints
 or information from an employee of the Agency concerning the existence of
 an activity constituting a violation of laws, rules, or regulations, or
 mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial
 and specific danger to the public health and safety. Once such complaint
 or information has been received--
 `(A) the Inspector General shall not disclose the identity of the employee
 without the consent of the employee, unless the Inspector General determines
 that such disclosure is unavoidable during the course of the investigation;
 and
 `(B) no action constituting a reprisal, or threat of reprisal, for making
 such complaint may be taken by any employee of the Agency in a position to
 take such actions, unless the complaint was made or the information was
 disclosed with the knowledge that it was false or with willful disregard
 for its truth or falsity.
 `(4) The Inspector General shall have authority to administer to or take
 from any person an oath, affirmation, or affidavit, whenever necessary in
 the performance of his duties, which oath affirmation, or affidavit when
 administered or taken by or before an employee of the Office designated by
 the Inspector General shall have the same force and effect as if administered
 or taken by or before an officer having a seal.
 `(5) The Inspector General shall be provided with appropriate and adequate
 office space at central and field office locations, together with such
 equipment, office supplies, maintenance services, and communications
 facilities and services as may be necessary for the operation of such offices.
 `(6) Subject to applicable law and the policies of the Director, the Inspector
 General shall select, appoint and employ such officers and employees as
 may be necessary to carry out his functions. In making such selections,
 the Inspector General shall ensure that such officers and employees have
 the requisite training and experience to enable him to carry out his
 duties effectively. In this regard, it is the sense of Congress that the
 Inspector General should create within his organization a career cadre of
 sufficient size to provide appropriate continuity and objectivity needed
 for the effective performance of his duties.
 `(7) Subject to the concurrence of the Director, the Inspector General may
 request such information or assistance as may be necessary for carrying out
 his duties and responsibilities from any Federal agency. Upon request of the
 Inspector General for such information or assistance, the head of the Federal
 agency involved shall, insofar as is practicable and not in contravention
 of any existing statutory restriction or regulation of the Federal agency
 concerned, furnish to the Inspector General, or to an authorized designee,
 such information or assistance.
 `(f) SEPARATE BUDGET ACCOUNT- Beginning with fiscal year 1991, and
 in accordance with procedures to be issued by the Director of Central
 Intelligence in consultation with the intelligence committees, the Director
 of Central Intelligence shall include in the National Foreign Intelligence
 Program budget a separate account for the Office of Inspector General
 established pursuant to this section.
 `(g) TRANSFER- There shall be transferred to the Office the office of the
 Agency referred to as the `Office of Inspector General.' The personnel,
 assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances
 of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed,
 held, used, arising from, or available to such `Office of Inspector General'
 are hereby transferred to the Office established pursuant to this section.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.