 
--H.R.1048--
H.R.1048
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the acquisition and publication of data about crimes that
manifest
prejudice based on certain group characteristics.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) this Act may be cited as
 the `Hate Crime Statistics Act'.
 (b)(1) Under the authority of section 534 of title 28, United States Code,
 the Attorney General shall acquire data, for the calendar year 1990 and each
 of the succeeding 4 calendar years, about crimes that manifest evidence
 of prejudice based on race, religion, sexual orientation, or ethnicity,
 including where appropriate the crimes of murder, non-negligent manslaughter;
 forcible rape; aggravated assault, simple assault, intimidation; arson;
 and destruction, damage or vandalism of property.
 (2) The Attorney General shall establish guidelines for the collection
 of such data including the necessary evidence and criteria that must be
 present for a finding of manifest prejudice and procedures for carrying
 out the purposes of this section.
 (3) Nothing in this section creates a cause of action or a right to bring
 an action, including an action based on discrimination due to sexual
 orientation. As used in this section, the term `sexual orientation' means
 consensual homosexuality or heterosexuality. This subsection does not limit
 any existing cause of action or right to bring an action, including any
 action under the Administrative Procedure Act or the All Writs Act.
 (4) Data acquired under this section shall be used only for research or
 statistical purposes and may not contain any information that may reveal
 the identity of an individual victim of a crime.
 (5) The Attorney General shall publish an annual summary of the data acquired
 under this section.
 (c) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the provisions of this section through fiscal year 1994.
 SEC. 2. (a) Congress finds that--
 (1) the American family life is the foundation of American Society,
 (2) Federal policy should encourage the well-being, financial security,
 and health of the American family,
 (3) schools should not de-emphasize the critical value of American family
 life.
 (b) Nothing in this Act shall be construed, nor shall any funds appropriated
 to carry out the purpose of the Act be used, to promote or encourage
 homosexuality.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.