 
--H.R.3789--
H.R.3789
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act to extend programs
providing urgently needed assistance for the homeless, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Amendments Act of 1990'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I--INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON THE HOMELESS
Sec. 101. Technical amendment.
Sec. 102. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 103. Extension of Interagency Council.
TITLE II--FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FOOD AND SHELTER PROGRAM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. Indian members of local boards.
TITLE III--HOUSING ASSISTANCE
Subtitle A--Revised McKinney Act
Sec. 301. Amendment to McKinney Act.
Sec. 302. Definition of `homeless person'.
Sec. 303. Transitional rule.
Sec. 304. Strategy to eliminate unfit transient facilities.
Subtitle B--Amendments to Current Program
Sec. 311. Comprehensive homeless assistance plan.
Sec. 312. Emergency shelter grants program.
Sec. 313. Supportive housing demonstration program.
Sec. 314. Supplemental assistance for facilities to assist the homeless.
Sec. 315. Section 8 assistance for single room occupancy dwellings.
Sec. 316. Housing affordability strategy requirement.
Sec. 317. Shelter plus care.
Subtitle C--Effective Date
Sec. 321. Effective date.
TITLE IV--USE OF PUBLIC REAL PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS AND CENSUS STUDY
Sec. 401. Use of certain public real property to assist the homeless.
Sec. 402. Study of the counting of the homeless for the national census.
TITLE V--HEALTH CARE FOR THE HOMELESS
Subtitle A--Categorical Grants for Primary Health Services and Substance
Abuse Services
Sec. 501. Waiver for certain organizations of requirement of status as
medicaid provider.
Sec. 502. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 503. Establishment of program regarding primary health services for
homeless children.
Subtitle B--Formula Grants to States for Assistance Regarding Transition
From Homelessness
Sec. 511. Establishment of program.
Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations for Community Demonstration
Projects
Sec. 521. Mental health services for homeless individuals with chronic
mental illness.
Sec. 522. Alcohol and drug abuse treatment of homeless individuals.
TITLE VI--EDUCATION, TRAINING, COMMUNITY SERVICE, AND FAMILY SUPPORT
Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Definition of homeless.
Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Literacy and Education
Sec. 611. Statewide literacy initiative.
Sec. 612. Education for homeless children and youth.
Sec. 613. Reporting requirement.
Subtitle B--Job Training for the Homeless
Sec. 621. Reauthorization of certain programs within the Stewart B. McKinney
Homeless Assistance Act.
Sec. 622. Job Training Partnership Act.
Subtitle C--Emergency Community Services Homeless Grant Program
Sec. 631. Emergency community services homeless grant program.
Subtitle D--Evaluation and Reports
Sec. 641. Evaluation and reports.
Subtitle E--Homeless Prevention Demonstration Programs
Sec. 651. Family support centers.
Subtitle F--Preventive Services Regarding Children of Homeless Families or
Families at Risk of Homelessness
Sec. 661. Certain preventive services regarding children of homeless families
or families at risk of homelessness.
TITLE VII--VETERANS PROGRAMS
Sec. 701. Medical programs.
TITLE I--INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON THE HOMELESS
SEC. 101. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 Section 202(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11312(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraph (15);
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs
 (12), (13), (14), and (15), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (10) the following new paragraph:
 `(11) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or the designee of the Secretary.'.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 208 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11318) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 208. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title $1,200,000
 for fiscal year 1991 and $1,300,000 for fiscal year 1992.'.
SEC. 103. EXTENSION OF INTERAGENCY COUNCIL.
 Section 209 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11319) is amended by striking `October 31, 1990' and inserting
 `October 1, 1992'.
TITLE II--FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FOOD AND SHELTER PROGRAM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 322 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11352) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 322. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title $150,000,000
 for each of fiscal years 1991 and 1992.'.
SEC. 202. INDIAN MEMBERS OF LOCAL BOARDS.
 (a) REQUIREMENT FOR AMERICAN INDIAN MEMBER- The second sentence of section
 302(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11332(a))
 is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
 `, and except that each local board administering program funds for a
 locality within which is located a reservation (as such term is defined
 in section 3(d) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452(d)),
 or a portion thereof, shall include a board member who is a member of an
 Indian tribe (as such term is defined in section 102(a)(17) of the Housing
 and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(17)).'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Each local board under the Emergency Food and Shelter
 Program whose membership shall include a member of an Indian tribe by reason
 of the amendment made by subsection (a) shall comply with the requirement
 made by such amendment not later than the expiration of the 30-day period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE III--HOUSING ASSISTANCE
Subtitle A--Revised McKinney Act
SEC. 301. AMENDMENT TO MCKINNEY ACT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act is amended to read as follows:
`TITLE IV--HOUSING ASSISTANCE
`Subtitle A--General Provisions
`SEC. 401. PURPOSE.
 `The purpose of this title is to expand the Federal commitment to alleviate
 homelessness in this Nation by providing States, Indian tribes, and localities
 with the resources to--
 `(1) help very low-income families avoid becoming homeless;
 `(2) meet the emergency shelter needs of homeless persons and families;
 `(3) provide transitional housing to facilitate the movement of homeless
 persons and families to independent living;
 `(4) provide specialized permanent housing for homeless persons who require
 a supportive living environment; and
 `(5) provide supportive services to help homeless persons and families lead
 independent and dignified lives.
`SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this title--
 `(1) The term `assistance' means grants to assist the acquisition, lease,
 renovation, substantial rehabilitation, operation, or conversion of facilities
 to assist the homeless, grants for moderate rehabilitation, grants for other
 purposes, and other assistance made eligible under section 405 and subtitle B.
 `(2) The term `emergency activities' means supportive services that are
 provided in an emergency shelter developed in accordance with section 412.
 `(3) The term `families' has the same meaning given the term under section
 3(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(4) The term `grantee' means--
 `(A) a State or unit of general local government receiving grants from the
 Secretary under section 403(a);
 `(B) a group of geographically contiguous local governments that have formed
 a consortium that, in the determination of the Secretary--
 `(i) has sufficient authority and administrative capability to act on
 behalf of its member jurisdictions in carrying out the provisions of section
 403(a), and
 `(ii) is comprised only of jurisdictions that have received a formula
 allocation for the fiscal year, and
 `(C) for purposes of section 406 and subsections (a), (b), (c), and (f)
 of section 407, an Indian tribe, Indian housing authority, or a private
 nonprofit organization receiving a direct grant under section 405.
 `(5) The term `person with disabilities' has the same meaning given the
 term in section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(6) The term `homeless person with disabilities' means a person with
 disabilities who is a homeless person within the meaning of section 103, is
 at risk of becoming a homeless person, or has been a resident of transitional
 housing carried out pursuant to this Act or the provisions made effective
 by section 101(g) of Public Law 99-500 or Public Law 99-591.
 `(7) The term `locality' means the geographical area within the jurisdiction
 of a local government.
 `(8) The term `operating costs' means expenses incurred by a project sponsor
 operating any housing assisted under this title with respect to--
 `(A) the administration, maintenance, repair, and security of such housing;
 and
 `(B) utilities, fuels, furnishings, and equipment for such housing.
 `(9) The term `operating costs' includes expenses incurred by a project
 sponsor operating transitional housing under this title with respect to--
 `(A) the conducting of the assessment required by section 413(c)(1)(B); and
 `(B) the provision of supportive services to the residents of such housing.
 `(10) The term `outpatient health services' means outpatient health care,
 outpatient mental health services, outpatient substance abuse services,
 and case management services.
 `(11) The term `private nonprofit organization' means an organization--
 `(A) no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any
 member, founder, contributor, or individual;
 `(B) that has a voluntary board;
 `(C) that has an accounting system or has designated a fiscal agent in
 accordance with requirements established by the Secretary; and
 `(D) that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance.
 `(12) The term `project' means a structure or a portion of a structure that
 is acquired or rehabilitated with assistance provided under this title or
 with respect to which the Secretary provides technical assistance or annual
 payments for operating costs.
 `(13) The term `project sponsor' means any governmental or private nonprofit
 organization that--
 `(A) receives assistance from the Secretary or from a grantee under section
 403(a),
 `(B) is approved by the grantee as to financial responsibility, and
 `(C) is directly responsible for the administration of assistance provided
 under this title.
Each project sponsor shall act as the fiscal agent of the Secretary with
respect to assistance provided to such project sponsor under this title.
 `(14) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development.
 `(15) The term `State' means a State of the United States, the District
 of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any agency or
 instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and
 designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the jurisdiction with
 regard to provisions of this Act.
 `(16)(A) The term `supportive services' means assistance designed by a
 project sponsor that--
 `(i) addresses the special needs of homeless persons, such as
 deinstitutionalized persons, families with children, persons with mental
 disabilities, other persons with disabilities, the elderly, and veterans
 intended to be served by a project; and
 `(ii) assists in accomplishing the purposes of the different types of
 housing for the homeless made eligible under this subtitle.
 `(B) The term includes--
 `(i) food services, child care, substance abuse treatment, assistance
 in obtaining permanent housing, outpatient health services, employment
 counseling, nutritional counseling, security arrangements for the protection
 of residents of facilities to assist the homeless, and such other services
 essential for maintaining or moving towards independent living as the
 Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
 `(ii) assistance to homeless persons in obtaining other Federal, State,
 and local assistance available for such individuals, including public
 assistance benefits, mental health benefits, employment counseling, and
 medical assistance.
 `(C) Such term does not include the provision of major medical equipment.
 `(D) All or part of the supportive services may be provided directly by
 the project sponsor or by arrangements with other public or private service
 providers.
 `(17) The term `unit of general local government' means any city, town,
 township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose subdivision of
 a State; Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American
 Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia and Palau, the Marshall Islands,
 or a general purpose political subdivision thereof; a consortium; and any
 other territory or possession of the United States.
 `(18) The term `consortium' means a group of geographically contiguous
 local governments that the Secretary determines--
`(A) has sufficient authority and administrative capability to act on behalf of
its member jurisdictions in carrying out the provisions of section 403(a); and
`(B) is comprised only of jurisdictions that have received a formula allocation
for the fiscal year.
 `(19) The term `very low-income families' has the same meaning given the term
 under section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(20) The terms `Indian tribe' and `Indian housing authority' have the same
 meanings as in section 3 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
`SEC. 403. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 `(a) Grants for Homeless Housing Assistance-
 `(1) IN GENERAL-
 `(A) GRANTS AUTHORIZED- The Secretary shall, to the extent of amounts
 approved in appropriations Acts under section 408, make grants to States and
 units of general local government and to eligible applicants under section
 405 in order to (i) carry out activities designed to meet the emergency,
 transitional, and permanent housing needs of the homeless, (ii) help very
 low-income families and persons avoid becoming homeless, and (iii) help
 homeless families and persons make the transition to permanent housing.
 `(B) STRATEGY REQUIRED- A jurisdiction shall be eligible to receive
 a grant only if it has obtained an approved housing strategy (or an
 approved abbreviated housing strategy) in accordance with section 105 of
 the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(C) USE OF PROJECT SPONSORS- A grantee shall carry out activities authorized
 under this subsection through contracts with project sponsors, except that
 a grantee that is a State shall obtain the approval of the unit of general
 local government for the locality in which a project is to be located prior
 to entering into such contracts.
 `(2) ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES- The amounts approved in appropriations Acts
 under section 408 shall be allocated in accordance with a formula established
 under section 404.
 `(b) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES- Grants under this title shall be available only
 for approved activities. Approved activities shall include--
 `(1) the provision of assistance to help very low-income families avoid
 becoming homeless in accordance with section 411;
 `(2) the development of emergency shelters for the homeless in accordance
 with section 412;
 `(3) the development of transitional housing to facilitate the transition
 of homeless persons to independent living in accordance with section 413;
 `(4) the development of permanent housing for homeless persons with
 disabilities in accordance with section 414;
 `(5) the provision of assistance to help very low-income families who are
 residing in emergency shelter or transitional housing make the transition
 to permanent housing in accordance with section 415; and
 `(6) such other activities that the Secretary develops in cooperation with
 grantees in accordance with section 416.
The Secretary shall establish standards and guidelines for approved
activities. The Secretary shall permit grantees to refine and adapt such
standards and guidelines for individual projects, where such refinements
and adaptations are made necessary by local circumstances.
 `(c) LIMITATIONS-
 `(1) PREVENTION- A grantee may use not more than 30 percent of grants
 allocated under subsection (a) for homelessness prevention activities as
 defined in section 411.
 `(2) EMERGENCY ACTIVITIES- A grantee may use not more than 30 percent of the
 grants allocated in accordance with subsection (a) for emergency activities as
 defined in section 412. The Secretary may approve a higher limitation if the
 grantee demonstrates that other approved activities under this subparagraph
 are already being carried out in the jurisdiction with other resources.
 `(d) SRO RENOVATION- The Secretary shall, to the extent of amounts approved in
 appropriations Acts for the programs authorized under section 421, provide
 rental assistance to public housing agencies or other contracting agencies
 for the renovation of single room occupancy dwellings in accordance with
 subtitle C.
`SEC. 404. ALLOCATION FORMULA.
 `Subject to section 303(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Amendments Act of 1990, the Secretary shall issue regulations establishing
 an allocation formula, if any, that reflects each jurisdiction's share of
 the Nation's need for housing assistance for the homeless.
`SEC. 405. DISCRETIONARY ALLOCATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In addition to grants otherwise authorized by this title,
 the Secretary is authorized to make grants to eligible applicants to
 meet urgent needs of homeless persons that are not being met by available
 public and private sources in areas with an unusually high incidence of
 homelessness. For purposes of this section, the term `eligible applicant'
 means a grantee, Indian tribe, Indian housing authority or private nonprofit
 organization, except that a grantee shall not be permitted to submit an
 application if the Secretary finds that the grantee is in noncompliance
 with sections 406 and 407.
 `(b) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES- Assistance provided under this section may be
 used for approved activities under subtitle B and for--
 `(1) the purchase, lease, rehabilitation, renovation, operation, or conversion
 of facilities to assist the homeless;
 `(2) the transitional provision of supportive services designed to meet
 special needs of homeless persons, including families with children,
 deinstitutionalized persons, persons with mental disabilities, other persons
 with disabilities, the elderly, and veterans; and
 `(3) the provision of supplemental assistance to projects assisted under
 sections 412 and 413 if such assistance is required to meet the special
 needs of homeless persons residing in such projects.
 `(c) APPLICATIONS- Assistance under this section shall be allocated among
 approvable applications submitted by eligible applicants. Applications
 for assistance under this section shall be submitted by an applicant in
 such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall
 establish. Such applications shall contain--
 `(1) a description of the proposed activities;
 `(2) a description of the size and characteristics of the homeless population
 that would be served by the proposed activities;
 `(3) a description of the public and private resources that are expected
 to be made available in connection with the proposed activities;
 `(4) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that any property purchased,
 leased, rehabilitated, renovated, or converted with assistance under this
 section (except for property to be used as emergency shelter in accordance
 with section 412) shall be operated for not less than 10 years for the
 purpose specified in the application;
 `(5) evidence in a form acceptable to the Secretary that the proposed
 activities will meet urgent needs of homeless persons that are not being
 met by available public and private sources;
 `(6) if submitted by a private nonprofit organization, a certification
 from the public official responsible for submitting a housing strategy in
 accordance with section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
 Housing Act that the application is consistent with the approved housing
 strategy; and
 `(7) such other information or certifications that the Secretary determines
 to be necessary to achieve the purposes of this section.
 `(d) SELECTION CRITERIA-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish selection criteria for
 assistance under this subsection, which shall principally take into account--
 `(A) the extent to which the proposed activities meet urgent needs of homeless
 persons that are not being met by available public and private sources;
 `(B) the extent to which the area in which the proposed activities are to be
 carried out is an area with an unusually high incidence of homelessness; and
 `(C) the extent to which such area is not being served by current programs
 to assist homeless persons.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL CRITERIA- Selection criteria established by the Secretary
 shall also take into account--
 `(A) the extent to which the proposed activities would make available as
 housing for homeless persons property owned by the Federal Government,
 a State, a unit of general local government, or other public entity,
 including in rem property, public buildings, and public land;
 `(B) the extent to which the proposed activities would be carried out in a
 jurisdiction that has demonstrated exemplary coordination among State and
 local agencies administering housing, child welfare, and public assistance
 activities;
 `(C) the extent to which the applicant has demonstrated the capacity to
 carry out the proposed activities; and
 `(D) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to
 ensure that funds made available under this section are used effectively.
 `(e) Special Rules for Supplemental Assistance for Facilities To Assist
 the Homeless-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not provide assistance under subsection
 (b)(3) unless the Secretary determines that--
 `(A) the applicant has made reasonable efforts to utilize all available
 local resources and resources available under the other provisions of this
 title; and
 `(B) other resources are not sufficient or are not available to carry out
 the purpose for which the assistance is being sought.
No assistance provided under subsection (b)(3) may be used to supplant any
non-Federal resources provided with respect to any project.
 `(2) HEALTH SERVICES- Not more than $10,000 of any grant or advance under
 subsection (b)(3) may be used for outpatient health services (excluding the
 cost of any rehabilitation or conversion of a structure to accommodate the
 provision of such services).
 `(3) GUIDELINES- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services shall jointly establish guidelines for
 determining under this section the appropriateness of proposed outpatient
 health services. Such guidelines shall include such provisions as are
 necessary to enable the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to meet
 the time limits under this section for the final selection of applications
 for assistance.
`SEC. 406. RESPONSIBILITIES OF GRANTEES AND PROJECT SPONSORS.
 `(a) MATCHING REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each grantee shall be required to supplement the grants
 provided under this title for acquisition, rehabilitation, or construction
 activities, except for assistance described in section 421, with an equal
 amount of funds from non-Federal sources. Each grantee shall certify to the
 Secretary its compliance with this subsection, describing the sources and
 amounts of such supplemental funds. Supplemental funds may include the value
 of any donated material or building, the value of any lease on a building,
 any salary paid to staff to carry out the program of a project sponsor,
 and the value of the time and services contributed by volunteers to carry
 out the program of a project sponsor at a rate determined by the Secretary.
 `(2) STATE MATCHING REQUIREMENT- Each grantee under this title that is a
 State shall be required to supplement the assistance provided under this
 title with an amount of funds from sources other than this title equal to
 the difference between the amount received under this title and $100,000. If
 the amount received by the State is $100,000 or less, the State may not be
 required to supplement the assistance provided under this title.
 `(3) BENEFIT OF MATCH- A State grantee shall obtain any matching amounts
 required under paragraph (2) in a manner so that local governments, Indian
 tribes, agencies, and local nonprofit organizations receiving assistance
 from the grant that are least capable of providing the recipient State with
 such matching amounts receive the benefit of the $100,000 subtrahend under
 paragraph (2).
 `(b) HOUSING QUALITY- Each grantee shall assure that housing assisted under
 this subtitle shall be decent, safe, and sanitary and, when appropriate,
 meet all applicable State and local housing codes, building codes, and
 licensing requirements in the jurisdiction in which the housing is located.
 `(c) CONSISTENCY WITH HOUSING STRATEGY- Each grantee shall certify, to
 the satisfaction of the Secretary, that activities undertaken by project
 sponsors with assistance from the grantee are consistent with the housing
 strategy submitted by the grantee in accordance with section 105 of the
 Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(d) ASSISTANCE TO HOMELESS PERSONS- Each grantee shall certify that each
 project sponsor shall administer, in good faith, a policy designed to
 ensure that any shelter or housing assisted under this subtitle is free
 from the illegal use, possession, or distribution of drugs or alcohol by
 its beneficiaries.
 `(e) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS- Each grantee shall certify, to the
 satisfaction of the Secretary, that neither assistance received under this
 subtitle nor any State or local government funds used to supplement such
 assistance will be used to replace other public funds previously used,
 or designated for use, to assist the homeless.
 `(f) CIVIL RIGHTS COMPLIANCE- Each grantee shall certify, to the satisfaction
 of the Secretary, that the grant will be conducted and administered
 in conformity with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Public Law
 88-352), and the Fair Housing Act and the grantee will affirmatively further
 fair housing.
 `(g) REPORTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each grantee shall submit to the Secretary, in such form and
 at such time as the Secretary shall prescribe, a performance and evaluation
 report on the use of amounts made available under this subtitle, together with
 the grantee's assessment of the relationship of such usage to the grantee's
 approved housing strategy. The report shall include information on the number
 of homeless persons served and the reasons for their homelessness. The report
 shall also specify the amounts made available under this subtitle for each
 approved activity under subtitle B. The report shall be made available to the
 public so that citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties have
 an opportunity to comment on the report prior to its submission. The report
 shall include a summary of any comments received from interested parties.
 `(2) CONSULTATION- The Secretary shall consult with national associations of
 States, local governments, and other housing interests to develop uniform
 recordkeeping, performance reporting, and auditing requirements. After
 considering the results of such consultations, the Secretary shall establish
 uniform recordkeeping, performance reporting, and auditing requirements
 for assistance made available under this subtitle.
 `(h) Site Control-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each grantee or project sponsor shall furnish reasonable
 assurances that it will own or have control of a site for the proposed project
 not later than 6 months after notification of an award for grant assistance. A
 suitable site different from the site specified in the application satisfies
 the requirement of this subsection. If ownership or control of a site is not
 obtained within 1 year after notification of an award for grant assistance,
 the grant shall be recaptured and reallocated.
 `(2) WAIVER- The Secretary may waive the requirement under paragraph (1)
 for any proposed project for which the Secretary determines such requirement
 is inapplicable because, under the application, the families and individuals
 served own or control, or will eventually own or control, the site.
 `(i) PREVENTION OF UNDUE BENEFITS- The Secretary may prescribe such terms
 and conditions as he deems necessary to prevent project sponsors from unduly
 benefiting from the sale or other disposition of projects constructed,
 rehabilitated, or acquired with assistance under this subtitle other than
 a sale or other disposition resulting in the use of the project for the
 direct benefit of very low-income families.
 `(j) CONFIDENTIALITY- Each grantee shall develop and implement procedures to
 ensure the confidentiality of records pertaining to any individual provided
 family violence prevention or treatment services under any project assisted
 under this title and to ensure that the address or location of any family
 violence shelter project assisted under this title will, except with written
 authorization of the person or persons responsible for the operation of
 such shelter, not be made public.
 `(k) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS- The Secretary may establish such other program
 requirements as the Secretary determines are necessary for grantees to
 administer activities authorized under this subtitle in an efficient manner.
`SEC. 407. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 `(a) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- A grantee may not use more than
 5 percent of the assistance received under this subtitle for administrative
 purposes.
 `(b) INCOME ELIGIBILITY- A homeless person shall be eligible for assistance
 under any program provided by this subtitle, or by the amendments made by
 this subtitle, only if the person has income not exceeding 50 percent of the
 median income for the area, as adjusted in accordance with section 3(b)(2)
 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(c) FLOOD ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS- Flood protection standards applicable
 to housing acquired, rehabilitated, or assisted under any provision of this
 subtitle shall be no more restrictive than the standards applicable to any
 other program administered by the Secretary.
 `(d) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 104(g) OF THE HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
 ACT OF 1974- The provisions of, and regulations and procedures applicable
 under, section 104(g) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
 shall apply to assistance and projects under this subtitle.
 `(e) GAO AUDITS- Insofar as they relate to funds provided under this
 section, the financial transactions of grantees and project sponsors may be
 audited by the General Accounting Office under such rules and regulations
 as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. The
 representatives of the General Accounting Office shall have access to all
 books, accounts, records, reports, files, and other papers, things, or
 property belonging to, or in use by, such grantees and project sponsors
 pertaining to the financial transactions and necessary to facilitate
 the audit.
`SEC. 408. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title such sums
 as may be necessary. Any amount appropriated under this section shall remain
 available until expended.
`SEC. 409. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
 `The Secretary shall submit annually to the Congress a report summarizing
 the activities carried out under this title and setting forth the findings,
 conclusions, and recommendations of the Secretary as a result of the
 activities. The report shall summarize and assess the results of performance
 reports provided in accordance with section 406(g). The report shall be
 submitted not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
`Subtitle B--Approved Activities
`SEC. 411. HOMELESSNESS PREVENTION.
 `(a) DEFINITION- Assistance to help very low-income families avoid becoming
 homeless may include activities other than those that the Secretary has
 found to be inconsistent with the purposes of this Act.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- A grantee may provide financial
 assistance to very low-income families who have received eviction notices
 or notices of termination of utility services if--
 `(1) the inability of the family to make the required payments is due to
 a sudden reduction in income;
 `(2) the assistance is necessary to avoid the eviction or termination
 of services;
 `(3) there is a reasonable prospect that the family will be able to resume
 payments within a reasonable period of time; and
 `(4) the assistance will not supplant funding for preexisting homelessness
 prevention activities from other sources.
`SEC. 412. EMERGENCY SHELTER.
 `(a) DEFINITION- A project shall be considered `emergency shelter' if it is
 designed to provide overnight sleeping accommodations for homeless persons. An
 emergency shelter may include appropriate eating and cooking accommodations.
 `(b) MINIMUM STANDARDS OF HABITABILITY- The Secretary shall prescribe
 such minimum standards of habitability as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate to ensure that emergency shelters assisted under this section
 are environments that provide appropriate privacy, safety, and sanitary and
 other health-related conditions for homeless persons and families. Grantees
 are authorized to establish standards of habitability in addition to those
 prescribed by the Secretary.
 `(c) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE- A grantee may provide the following assistance
 to a project sponsor of emergency shelter:
 `(1) a grant for the renovation, major rehabilitation, or conversion of
 buildings to be used as emergency shelters;
 `(2) a grant for the provision of supportive services if such services do
 not supplant any services provided by the local government during any part
 of the immediately preceding 12-month period; and
 `(3) annual payments for maintenance, operation, insurance, utilities,
 and furnishings.
 `(d) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- A grantee may approve assistance for a project
 under this subsection only if the project sponsor has agreed that it will--
 `(1) in the case of assistance involving major rehabilitation or conversion
 of a building, maintain the building as a shelter for homeless persons and
 families for not less than a 10-year period;
 `(2) in the case of assistance involving rehabilitation (other than major
 rehabilitation or conversion of a building), maintain the building as a
 shelter for homeless persons and families for not less than a 3-year period;
 `(3) in the case of assistance involving only activities described in
 paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (c), provide services or shelter to
 homeless persons and families at the original site or structure or other
 sites or structures serving the same general population for the period
 during which such assistance is provided;
 `(4) comply with the standards of habitability prescribed by the Secretary
 and (if applicable) the State or unit of general local government; and
 `(5) assist homeless persons in obtaining--
 `(A) appropriate supportive services, including permanent housing, medical
 and mental health treatment, counseling, supervision, and other services
 essential for achieving independent living; and
 `(B) other Federal, State, local, and private assistance available for
 homeless persons.
`SEC. 413. TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FOR THE HOMELESS.
 `(a) DEFINITION- A project shall be considered `transitional housing' if it
 is designed to facilitate the movement of homeless persons to independent
 living within 24 months (or such longer period as the Secretary determines
 is necessary to facilitate the transition of homeless persons to independent
 living). Transitional housing includes housing primarily designed to serve
 deinstitutionalized homeless persons and other homeless persons with mental
 disabilities, and homeless families with children.
 `(b) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE- A grantee may provide the following assistance
 to a project sponsor of transitional housing:
 `(1) A grant for the cost of acquisition, substantial rehabilitation,
 or acquisition and rehabilitation of an existing structure for use as
 transitional housing. The repayment of any outstanding debt owed on a loan
 made to purchase an existing structure shall be considered to be a cost of
 acquisition eligible for an advance under this paragraph if the structure
 was not used as transitional housing prior to the receipt of assistance.
 `(2) A grant for moderate rehabilitation of an existing structure for use
 as transitional housing.
 `(3) A grant, in an amount not to exceed $400,000, for the new construction
 of a structure for use in the provision of supportive housing.
 `(4) Annual payments for operating costs of transitional housing (including
 transitional housing that is newly constructed with assistance provided
 from sources other than this Act) not to exceed 75 percent of the annual
 operating costs of such housing.
 `(5) Technical assistance in--
 `(A) establishing transitional housing in an existing structure;
 `(B) operating transitional housing in existing structures and in structures
 that are newly constructed with assistance provided from sources other than
 this Act; and
 `(C) providing supportive services to the residents of transitional housing
 (including transitional housing that is newly constructed with assistance
 provided from sources other than this Act).
 `(6) A grant for establishing and operating an employment assistance program
 for the residents of transitional housing, which shall include--
 `(A) employment of residents in the operation and maintenance of the
 housing; and
 `(B) the payment of the transportation costs of residents to places of
 employment.
 `(7) A grant to establish and operate a child care services program for
 homeless families as follows:
 `(A) A program under this paragraph shall include--
 `(i) establishing, licensing, and operating an on-site child care facility
 for the residents of transitional housing; or
 `(ii) making contributions for the child care costs of residents of
 transitional housing to existing community child care programs and
 facilities; and
 `(iii) counseling designed to inform the residents of transitional housing
 of public and private child care services for which they are eligible.
 `(B) A grant under this paragraph for any child care services program
 shall not exceed the amount equal to 75 percent of the cost of operating
 the program for a period of up to 5 years.
 `(C) Child care services provided with respect to a child care services
 program assisted under this paragraph shall meet any applicable State and
 local laws and regulations.
A project sponsor may receive assistance under both paragraphs (1) and (2).
 `(c) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) REQUIRED AGREEMENTS- A grantee may approve assistance for a project
 under this section only if the project sponsor has agreed--
 `(A) to operate the proposed project as transitional housing for not less
 than 10 years, except that in the case of any leased property receiving
 assistance under this subtitle other than for lease of the property,
 assurances under this paragraph shall be made annually that the project
 will be operated to assist homeless individuals for such year;
 `(B) to conduct an ongoing assessment of the supportive services required
 by the residents of the project;
 `(C) to provide such residential supervision as the Secretary determines
 is necessary to facilitate the adequate provision of supportive services
 to the residents of the project;
 `(D) to comply with such other terms and conditions as the Secretary or
 grantee may establish for purposes of carrying out this program in an
 effective and efficient manner.
 `(2) OCCUPANT RENT- Each homeless person residing in a facility assisted
 under this section shall pay as rent an amount determined in accordance
 with the provisions of section 3(a) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(3) ALTERNATIVE USE- A project may continue to be treated as transitional
 housing for purposes of this subsection if the grantee determines that such
 project is no longer needed for use as transitional housing and approves
 the use of such project for the direct benefit of very low-income families.
`SEC. 414. PERMANENT HOUSING FOR HOMELESS PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
 `(a) DEFINITION- A project shall be considered `permanent housing for homeless
 persons with disabilities' if it provides community-based long-term housing
 and supportive services for not more than 8 homeless persons with disabilities
 (or 16 such persons, but only if not more than 20 percent of the units in
 a project are designated for such persons). The Secretary may waive the
 limitation contained in the preceding sentence if the grantee demonstrates
 that local market conditions dictate the development of a larger project.
 `(b) PROJECT DESIGN AND SITING- Each project assisted under this subtitle
 shall be either a home designed solely for housing persons with disabilities
 or dwelling units in a multifamily housing project, condominium project, or
 cooperative project. Not more than 1 home may be located on any 1 site and
 no such home may be located on a site contiguous to another site containing
 such a home.
 `(c) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE- A grantee may provide the following assistance to
 a project sponsor of permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities:
 `(1) A grant for the cost of acquisition, substantial rehabilitation,
 or acquisition and rehabilitation of an existing structure for use as
 permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities. The repayment of
 any outstanding debt owed on a loan made to purchase an existing structure
 shall be considered to be a cost of acquisition eligible for a grant under
 this paragraph if the structure was not used as permanent housing for
 homeless persons with disabilities prior to the receipt of assistance.
 `(2) A grant for moderate rehabilitation of an existing structure for use
 as permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities.
 `(3) A grant, in an amount not to exceed $400,000, for the new construction
 of a structure for use in the provision of supportive housing.
 `(4) Annual payments for operating costs for permanent housing for homeless
 persons with disabilities (including permanent housing for homeless persons
 with disabilities that is newly constructed with assistance provided
 from sources other than this Act), not to exceed 75 percent of the annual
 operating costs of such housing, and any recipient may reapply for such
 assistance or for the renewal of such assistance for use during the 10-year
 period under subsection (d) (unless such assistance is no longer necessary,
 in the determination of the Secretary).
 `(5) Technical assistance in--
 `(A) establishing permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities
 in an existing structure;
 `(B) operating permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities
 in existing structures and in structures that are newly constructed with
 assistance provided from sources other than this Act; and
 `(C) providing supportive services to the residents of permanent housing
 for homeless persons with disabilities (including permanent housing for
 homeless persons with disabilities that is newly constructed with assistance
 provided from sources other than this Act).
 `(d) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) REQUIRED AGREEMENTS- A grantee may approve assistance for any project
 under this section only if the project sponsor has agreed--
 `(A) to operate the proposed project as permanent housing for homeless
 persons with disabilities for not less than 10 years, except that in
 the case of projects not receiving a grant under paragraph (1), (2), or
 (3) of subsection (c), assurances under this subparagraph shall be made
 annually that the project will be operated for the purpose specified in
 the application for such year;
 `(B) to conduct an ongoing assessment of the supportive services required
 by the residents of the project;
 `(C) to provide such residential supervision as the Secretary determines
 is necessary to facilitate the adequate provision of supportive services
 to the residents of the project; and
 `(D) to comply with such other terms and conditions as the Secretary or
 grantee may establish for purposes of carrying out this program in an
 effective and efficient manner.
 `(2) STATE PARTICIPATION- Each grantee providing assistance to a project
 under this section shall transmit to the Secretary a letter of participation
 from the State assuring that the State will facilitate the provision of
 necessary supportive services to the residents of the project;
 `(3) OCCUPANT RENT- Each homeless person residing in a project assisted
 under this section shall pay as rent an amount determined in accordance
 with the provisions of section 3(a) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(4) ALTERNATIVE USE- A project may continue to be treated as permanent
 housing for homeless persons with disabilities for purposes of this subsection
 if the grantee determines that such project is no longer needed for use as
 such housing and approves the use of such project for the direct benefit
 of very low-income families.
 `(5) TENANT SELECTION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- A project sponsor owner shall adopt written tenant selection
 procedures that are satisfactory to the Secretary as (i) consistent with
 the purpose of improving housing opportunities for very low-income persons
 with disabilities; and (ii) reasonably related to program eligibility and
 an applicant's ability to perform the obligations of the lease. Project
 sponsors shall promptly notify in writing any rejected applicant of the
 grounds for any rejection.
 `(B) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT OCCUPANCY- Notwithstanding any other provision of
 law, a project sponsor may, with the approval of the grantee, limit occupancy
 within housing developed under this section to persons with disabilities who
 have similar disabilities and require a similar set of supportive services
 in a supportive housing environment.
 `(6) RENEWED FUNDING FOR SHORT-TERM LEASE PROJECTS- The Secretary may not
 provide assistance under paragraph (4) or (5) of subsection (c) to any
 project not receiving assistance under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of such
 subsection unless assurances have been made under paragraph (1)(A) of this
 subsection that the project will be operated for the purpose specified in
 the application for the year for which such assistance is provided.
`SEC. 415. TRANSITION TO PERMANENT HOUSING.
 `(a) USE OF GRANTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- A grant under this section may be used by a grantee to
 provide grants or loans to help eligible families make the transition
 to permanent housing. A grantee may use assistance under this section to
 provide for the payment by very low-income families of security deposits
 and the cost of rent for a reasonable period of time.
 `(2) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide informational and
 technical assistance to units of general local government and housing agencies
 in organizing and developing assistance programs under this section. For
 purposes of this section, the term `eligible family' means a very low-income
 family who has resided in emergency shelter or transitional housing and
 who meets other conditions of eligibility as the Secretary determines to
 be appropriate.
 `(3) FINANCIAL COUNSELING- The grantee shall provide counseling regarding
 household finances and budgeting to any family that receives a grant or
 loan under this section.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- A grantee may provide assistance
 to eligible families in the form of a security deposit and the cost of rent
 for a reasonable period of time if--
 `(1) the grantee determines that the rental charge for the subject unit
 is reasonable in comparison with rents charged for comparable units in the
 private, unassisted market;
 `(2) there is a regular income and a reasonable prospect that the family
 will be able to sustain the rental payments for a reasonable period of time
 and to repay any loan provided; and
 `(3) the eligible family has made reasonable efforts to receive assistance
 under the program of aid to families with dependent children under part
 A of title IV of the Social Security Act or a similar local, State, or
 Federal public assistance program.
 `(c) PARTICIPATING LANDLORD- If an eligible family vacates the rental unit,
 a landlord participating in this program shall return to the grantee any
 portion of the security deposit (including reasonable interest) against
 which such landlord does not have a claim. Any returned funds may be used
 by a grantee in accordance with section 403(a).
`SEC. 416. DEVELOPMENT OF ADDITIONAL APPROVED ACTIVITIES.
 `The Secretary, in cooperation with grantees and other appropriate parties,
 shall develop additional approved activities to carry out the purposes of
 this title.
`Subtitle C--Section 8 Single Room Occupancy
`SEC. 421. SECTION 8 ASSISTANCE FOR SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY PROVISIONS.
 `(a) USE OF FUNDS- The amounts made available under this subtitle shall be
 used only in connection with the moderate rehabilitation of housing described
 in section 8(n) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for occupancy by
 homeless persons, except that such amounts may be used in connection with
 the moderate rehabilitation of efficiency units if the building owner agrees
 to pay the additional cost of rehabilitating and operating such units.
 `(b) ALLOCATION- The amounts made available under this subtitle shall be
 allocated by the Secretary on the basis of a national competition among
 approvable applications to the applicant public housing agencies or other
 contracting agencies that best demonstrate a need for the assistance under
 this section and the ability to undertake and carry out a program to be
 assisted under this subtitle. To be considered for assistance under this
 section, an applicant shall submit to the Secretary a proposal containing--
 `(1) a description of the size and characteristics of the population
 within the applicant's jurisdiction that would occupy single room occupancy
 dwellings;
 `(2) a listing of additional commitments from public and private sources
 that the applicant might be able to provide in connection with the program;
 `(3) an inventory of suitable housing stock to be rehabilitated with such
 assistance; and
 `(4) a description of the interest that has been expressed by builders,
 developers, and others (including profit and nonprofit organizations)
 in participating in the program.
No single city or urban county shall be eligible to receive more than 10
percent of the assistance made available under this subtitle.
 `(c) FIRE AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS- Each annual contribution contract
 entered into with the authority provided under this subtitle shall require
 the installation of a sprinkler system that protects all major spaces,
 hard wired smoke detectors, and such other fire and safety improvements
 as may be required by State or local law. For purposes of this subsection,
 the term `major spaces' means hallways, large common areas, and other areas
 specified in local fire, building, or safety codes.
 `(d) COST LIMITATION-
 `(1) PER UNIT CEILING- The total cost of rehabilitation that may be
 compensated for in an annual contribution contract entered into with the
 authority provided under this subtitle shall not exceed $15,000 per unit,
 plus the expenditures required by subsection (d).
 `(2) AUTHORITY TO INCREASE- The Secretary shall increase the limitation
 contained in paragraph (1) by an amount the Secretary determines is reasonable
 and necessary to accommodate special local conditions, including--
 `(A) high construction costs; or
 `(B) stringent fire or building codes.
 `(3) ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT- The Secretary shall increase the limitation in
 paragraph (1) on October 1 of each year by an amount necessary to take into
 account increases in construction costs during the previous 12-month period.
 `(e) CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS- Each contract for annual contributions entered
 into with a public housing agency or other contracting agency to obligate
 the authority made available under this subtitle shall--
 `(1) commit the Secretary to make such authority available to the public
 housing agency or other contracting agency for an aggregate period of 10
 years, and require that any amendments increasing such authority shall be
 available for the remainder of such 10-year period;
 `(2) provide the Secretary with the option to renew the contract for an
 additional period of 10 years, subject to the availability of appropriations;
 and
 `(3) provide that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, first priority
 for occupancy of housing rehabilitated under this subtitle shall be given
 to homeless persons.
`SEC. 422. APPLICABILITY TO INDIANS.
 `Pursuant to section 201(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937,
 this subtitle shall apply to Indian tribes and Indian housing authorities.
`Subtitle D--Shelter Plus Care Program
`PART I--SHELTER PLUS CARE: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
`SEC. 431. PURPOSE.
 `The purpose of the program authorized under this subtitle is to provide
 rental housing assistance, in connection with supportive services funded
 from sources other than this subtitle, to homeless persons with disabilities
 (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic problems
 with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
 and related diseases) and the families of such persons.
`SEC. 432. RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized, in accordance with the
 provisions of this subtitle, to provide rental housing assistance under
 parts II, III, and IV.
 `(b) FUNDING LIMITATIONS- To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary
 shall reserve not less than 50 percent of all funds provided under this
 subtitle for homeless individuals who are seriously mentally ill or have
 chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both.
`SEC. 433. SUPPORTIVE SERVICES REQUIREMENTS.
 `(a) Matching Funding-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each recipient shall be required to supplement the
 assistance provided under this subtitle with an equal amount of funds for
 supportive services from sources other than this subtitle. Each recipient
 shall certify to the Secretary its compliance with this paragraph, and shall
 include with the certification a description of the sources and amounts of
 such supplemental funds.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF MATCHING AMOUNTS- In calculating the amount of
 supplemental funds provided under this subtitle, a recipient may include
 the value of any lease on a building, any salary paid to staff to carry
 out the program of the recipient, and the value of the time and services
 contributed by volunteers to carry out the program of the recipient at a
 rate determined by the Secretary.
 `(b) RECAPTURE- If the supportive services and funding for the supportive
 services required by this section are not provided, the Secretary may
 recapture any unexpended housing assistance.
`SEC. 434. APPLICATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- An application for rental housing assistance under this
 subtitle shall be submitted by an applicant in such forms and in accordance
 with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish.
 `(b) MINIMUM CONTENTS- The Secretary shall require that an application
 identify the need for the assistance in the community to be served and
 shall contain at a minimum--
 `(1) a request for housing assistance under part II, III, or IV, or a
 combination, specifying the number of units requested and the amount of
 necessary budget authority;
 `(2) a description of the size and characteristics of the population of
 eligible persons;
 `(3) an identification of the need for the program in the community to
 be served;
 `(4) the identity of the proposed service provider or providers (which may
 be, or include, the applicant) and a statement of the qualifications of
 the provider or providers;
 `(5) a description of the supportive services that the applicant proposes
 to assure will be available for eligible persons;
 `(6) a description of the resources that are expected to be made available
 to provide the supportive services required by section 433;
 `(7) a description of the mechanisms for developing a housing and supportive
 services plan for each person and for monitoring each person's progress in
 meeting that plan;
 `(8) reasonable assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the supportive
 services will be provided for the full term of the housing assistance
 under part II, III, or IV, or a combination; and a certification from the
 applicant that it will fund the supportive services itself if the planned
 resources do not become available for any reason;
 `(9) a certification by the public official responsible for submitting
 the comprehensive housing affordability strategy under section 105 of
 the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act that the proposed
 activities are consistent with the approved housing strategy of the unit
 of general local government within which housing assistance under this
 subtitle will be provided;
 `(10) a plan for--
 `(A) in the case of rental housing assistance under part II, providing
 housing assistance;
 `(B) identifying and selecting eligible persons to participate, including a
 proposed definition of the term `chronic problems with alcohol, other drugs,
 or both';
 `(C) coordinating the provision of housing assistance and supportive services;
 `(D) ensuring that the service providers are providing supportive services
 adequate to meet the needs of the persons served;
 `(E) obtaining participation of eligible persons who have previously not
 been assisted under programs designed to assist the homeless or have been
 considered not capable of participation in these programs; this plan shall
 specifically address how homeless persons, as defined in section 103(a)(2)(C),
 (and the families of such persons) will be brought into the program;
 `(11) in the case of housing assistance under part III, identification of
 the specific structures that the recipient is proposing for rehabilitation
 and assistance; and
 `(12) in the case of housing assistance under part IV, identification of
 the nonprofit entity that will be the owner or lessor of the property,
 and identification of the specific structures in which the nonprofit entity
 proposes to house eligible persons.
`SEC. 435. SELECTION CRITERIA.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish selection criteria for a
 national competition for assistance under this subtitle, which shall include--
 `(1) the ability of the applicant to develop and operate the proposed
 assisted housing and supportive services program, taking into account the
 quality of any ongoing program of the applicant;
 `(2) geographic diversity among the projects to be assisted;
 `(3) the need for a program providing housing assistance and supportive
 services for eligible persons in the area to be served;
 `(4) the quality of the proposed program for providing supportive services
 and housing assistance;
 `(5) the extent to which the proposed funding for the supportive services
 is or will be available;
 `(6) the extent to which the project would meet the needs of the homeless
 persons proposed to be served by the program;
 `(7) the extent to which the program integrates program recipients into
 the community served by the program; and
 `(8) the cost-effectiveness of the proposed program; and
 `(9) such other factors as the Secretary specifies in regulations to be
 appropriate for purposes of carrying out the program established by this
 subtitle in an effective and efficient manner.
 `(b) FUNDING LIMITATION- No more than 10 percent of the assistance made
 available under this subtitle for any fiscal year may be used for programs
 located within any one unit of general local government.
`SEC. 436. REQUIRED AGREEMENTS.
 `The Secretary may not approve assistance under this subtitle unless the
 applicant agrees--
 `(1) to operate the proposed program in accordance with the provisions of
 this subtitle;
 `(2) to conduct an ongoing assessment of the housing assistance and supportive
 services required by the participants in the program;
 `(3) to assure the adequate provision of supportive services to the
 participants in the program; and
 `(4) to comply with such other terms and conditions as the Secretary may
 establish for purposes of carrying out the program in an effective and
 efficient manner.
`SEC. 437. TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) AUTHORITY- If an eligible individual who receives assistance under this
 subtitle violates program requirements, the recipient may terminate assistance
 in accordance with the process established pursuant to subsection (b).
 `(b) PROCEDURE- In terminating assistance under this section, the recipient
 shall provide a formal process that recognizes the rights of individuals
 receiving such assistance to due process of law.
`SEC. 438. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this subtitle:
 `(1) The term `acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases'
 has the same meaning given that term in section 853 of the Cranston-Gonzalez
 National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(2) The term `applicant' means--
 `(A) in the case of rental housing assistance under parts II and IV,
 a State unit of general local government, or Indian tribe; and
 `(B) in the case of single room occupancy housing under the section 8
 moderate rehabilitation program under part III (i) a State, unit of general
 local government, or Indian tribe (that shall be responsible for assuring
 the provision of supportive services and the overall administration of
 the program), and (ii) a public housing agency (that shall be primarily
 responsible for administering the housing assistance under part III).
 `(3) The term `eligible person' means a homeless person with disabilities
 (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic problems
 with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
 and related diseases) and the family of such a person.
 `(4) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such term in section
 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
 `(5) The term `person with disabilities' has the same meaning given the
 term in section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(6) The term `public housing agency' has the meaning given such term in
 section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(7) The term `recipient' means an applicant approved for participation in
 the program authorized under this subtitle.
 `(8) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development.
 `(9) The term `seriously mentally ill' means having a severe and persistent
 mental or emotional impairment that seriously limits a person's ability to
 live independently.
 `(10) The term `State' means each of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
 American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the
 Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
 `(11) The term `supportive services' means assistance that the Secretary
 determines (A) addresses the special needs of eligible persons; and (B)
 provides appropriate services or assists such persons in obtaining appropriate
 services, including health care, mental health services, substance and alcohol
 abuse services, child care services, case management services, counseling,
 supervision, education, job training, and other services essential for
 achieving and maintaining independent living. In-patient acute hospital
 care shall not qualify as a supportive service.
 `(13) The term `unit of general local government' has the meaning given
 such term in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
`SEC. 439. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of the housing program under part II of
 this subtitle, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
 be necessary.
 `(b) PART III- For purposes of the housing program under part III of this
 subtitle, the budget authority available under section 5(c) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937 for assistance under section 8(e)(2) of such
 Act is authorized to be increased by such sums as may be necessary.
 `(c) PART IV- For purposes of the housing program under part IV of this
 subtitle, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary.
 `(d) AVAILABILITY- Sums appropriated under this section shall remain
 available until expended.
`PART II--SHELTER PLUS CARE: HOMELESS RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 441. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 439(a) to provide rental housing assistance in accordance with the
 requirements of this part.
`SEC. 442. HOUSING ASSISTANCE.
 `Where necessary to assure that the provision of supportive services to
 persons is feasible, a recipient may require that a person participating
 in the program live (1) in a particular structure or unit for up to the
 first year of participation, and (2) within a particular geographic area
 for the full period of participation or the period remaining after the
 period referred to in paragraph (1).
`SEC. 443. AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.
 `The contract with a recipient for assistance under this part shall be for a
 term of 5 years. Each contract shall provide that the recipient shall receive
 aggregate amounts not to exceed the appropriate existing housing fair market
 rent limitation under section 8(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937
 in effect at the time the application is approved. At the option of the
 recipient and subject to the availability of such amounts, the recipient may
 receive in any year (1) up to 25 percent of such amounts or (2) such higher
 percentage as the Secretary may approve upon a demonstration satisfactory to
 the Secretary that the recipient has entered into firm financial commitments
 to ensure that the housing assistance described in the application will be
 provided for the full term of the contract. Any amounts not needed for a
 year may be used to increase the amount available in subsequent years. Each
 recipient shall ensure that the assistance provided by the Secretary, and
 any amounts provided from other sources, are managed so that the housing
 assistance described in the application is provided for the full term of
 the assistance.
`SEC. 444. HOUSING STANDARDS AND RENT REASONABLENESS.
 `(a) STANDARDS REQUIRED- The Secretary shall require that--
 `(1) before any assistance may be provided to or on behalf of the person,
 each unit shall be inspected by the applicant directly or by another entity,
 including the local public housing agency (or if no such agency exists in
 the applicable area, an entity selected by the Secretary), to determine
 that the unit meets the housing quality standards under section 8 of the
 United States Housing Act of 1937 and that the occupancy charge for the
 dwelling unit is reasonable; and
 `(2) the recipient shall make at least annual inspections of each unit
 during the contract term.
 `(b) PROHIBITION- No assistance may be provided for a dwelling unit (1) for
 which the occupancy charge is not reasonable, or (2) which fails to meet
 the housing standards, unless the owner promptly corrects the deficiency
 and the recipient verifies the correction.
`SEC. 445. TENANT RENT.
 `Each tenant shall pay as rent an amount determined in accordance with the
 provisions of section 3(a)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
`SEC. 446. ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
 `From amounts made available under appropriations Acts, the Secretary
 shall make amounts available to pay the entity administering the housing
 assistance an administrative fee in an amount determined appropriate by
 the Secretary for the costs of administering the housing assistance.
`PART III--SHELTER PLUS CARE: SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION ASSISTANCE
FOR SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY DWELLINGS
`SEC. 451. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 439(b) of this subtitle only in connection with the moderate rehabilitation of
 single room occupancy housing described in section 8(n) of the United States
 Housing Act of 1937 for occupancy by homeless persons. However, amounts made
 available under section 439(b) may be used in connection with the moderate
 rehabilitation of efficiency units if the building owner agrees to pay the
 additional cost of rehabilitating and operating the efficiency units.
`SEC. 452. FIRE AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS.
 `Each contract for housing assistance payments entered into using the
 authority provided under section 439(b) shall require the installation
 of a sprinkler system that protects all major spaces, hard-wired smoke
 detectors, and such other fire and safety improvements as may be required
 by State or local law. For purposes of this section, the term `major spaces'
 means hallways, large common areas, and other areas specified in local fire,
 building, or safety codes.
`SEC. 453. CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
 `Each contract for annual contributions entered into by the Secretary with
 a public housing agency to obligate the authority made available under
 section 439(b) shall--
 `(1) commit the Secretary to make the authority available to the public
 housing agency for an aggregate period of 10 years, and require that any
 amendments increasing the authority shall be available for the remainder
 of such 10-year period;
 `(2) provide the Secretary with the option to renew the contract for an
 additional period of 10 years, subject to the availability of authority; and
 `(3) provide that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, first priority
 for occupancy of housing rehabilitated under this part III shall be given
 to homeless persons.
`SEC. 454. OCCUPANCY.
 `(a) OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT- The occupancy agreement between the tenant and
 the owner shall be for at least one month.
 `(b) VACANCY PAYMENTS- If an eligible person vacates a dwelling unit before
 the expiration of the occupancy agreement, no assistance payment may be made
 with respect to the unit after the month during which the unit was vacated,
 unless it is occupied by another eligible person.
`PART IV--SHELTER PLUS CARE: SECTION 202 RENTAL ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 461. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 439(c) of this subtitle only in connection with the provision of rental
 housing assistance under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 in fiscal
 year 1991 or section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing
 Act in fiscal year 1992 for very low-income eligible persons. The contract
 between the Secretary and the recipient shall require the recipient to enter
 into contracts with owners or lessors of housing meeting the requirements
 of section 202 or section 811 for the purpose of providing such rental
 housing assistance.
`SEC. 462. AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.
 `The contract with a recipient of assistance under this part shall be for
 a term of 5 years. Each contract shall provide that the recipient shall
 receive aggregate amounts not to exceed the appropriate existing housing fair
 market rent limitation under section 8(c) of the United States Housing Act
 of 1937 in effect at the time the application is approved. Each recipient
 shall ensure that the assistance provided by the Secretary, and any amounts
 provided from other sources, are managed so that the housing assistance
 described in the application is provided for the full term of the assistance.
`SEC. 463. HOUSING STANDARDS AND RENT REASONABLENESS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall require that (1) the recipient inspect
 each unit before any assistance may be provided to or on behalf of the
 person to determine that the occupancy charge for the housing being or to be
 provided is reasonable and that each unit meets housing standards established
 by the Secretary for the purpose of this part, and (2) the recipient make
 at least annual inspections of each unit during the contract term.
 `(b) PROHIBITION- No assistance may be provided for a dwelling unit (1)
 for which the occupancy charge is not reasonable, or (2) which fails to
 meet the housing standards, unless the owner or lessor, as the case may be,
 promptly corrects the deficiency and the recipient verifies the correction.
`SEC. 464. ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
 `From amounts made available under appropriations Acts, the Secretary shall
 make amounts available to pay the nonprofit entity that is the owner or
 lessor of the housing assisted under this part an administrative fee in an
 amount determined appropriate by the Secretary for the costs of administering
 the housing assistance.
`Subtitle E--Miscellaneous
`SEC. 471. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.
 `The provisions of, and the regulations and procedures applicable under,
 section 104(g) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 shall
 apply to assistance and projects under this title.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than 180 days after the date funds authorized
 under section 439 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, as
 amended by this section, first become available for obligation, the Secretary
 shall by notice establish such requirements as may be necessary to carry
 out the provisions of subtitle D of title IV of that Act. Such requirements
 shall be subject to section 553 of title 5, United States Code. The Secretary
 shall issue regulations based on the initial notice before the expiration
 of the 8-month period following the date of the notice. The Secretary shall
 issue regulations based on the initial notice before the expiration of the
 8-month period following the date of the notice. In developing program
 guidelines and regulations to implement such subtitle, the Secretary of
 Housing and Urban Development may consult with the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services with respect to supportive services aspects of this title.
 (c) TRANSITION PROVISIONS- Amounts appropriated for use under subtitle D of
 title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, as it existed
 immediately before the effective date of the amendment made by this section,
 that are or become available for obligation shall be available for use under
 subtitle D of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act,
 as amended by this section.
SEC. 302. DEFINITION OF `HOMELESS PERSON'.
 Section 103(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act is amended
 by adding after `homeless individual' the following: `or homeless person'.
SEC. 303. TRANSITIONAL RULE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The amendment made by section 301 shall take effect--
 (1) on October 1, 1992, or
 (2) on the date specified by a statute adopting a proposed allocation
 formula described in subsections (b) and (c),
whichever is later.
 (b) FEASIBILITY STUDY- The Secretary shall carry out a study to determine the
 feasibility of allocating homeless assistance by a formula that distributes
 housing assistance for the homeless in accordance with the relative incidence
 of homelessness in jurisdictions across the United States. If the Secretary
 determines that the use of such a formula is feasible, the Secretary shall
 develop one or more such formulas. In determining alternative allocation
 formulas, the Secretary shall consider--
 (1) objective measures of the incidence of homelessness;
 (2) the relation between the supply of affordable housing for very low-income
 families and the number of such families in the jurisdiction;
 (3) poverty;
 (4) housing overcrowding; and
 (5) any other relevant factors, including the reliability of data pertaining
 to homelessness.
 (c) REPORT- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a report on the feasibility
 study under this subsection. Such report shall contain any formula or
 formulas developed under subsection (b) together with detailed analysis
 of the formulas. In preparing such report, the Secretary shall consult
 with organizations representing homeless persons, nonprofit organizations,
 public housing agencies, and State and local housing and service agencies.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Upon the adoption of a formula described in this
 section, that part of the table of contents of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act that relates to title IV of such Act is amended to
 read as follows:
`TITLE IV--HOUSING ASSISTANCE
`Subtitle A--General Provisions
`Sec. 401. Purpose.
`Sec. 402. Definitions.
`Sec. 403. General authority.
`Sec. 404. Allocation formula.
`Sec. 405. Discretionary allocation.
`Sec. 406. Responsibilities of grantees and project sponsors.
`Sec. 407. Administrative provisions.
`Sec. 408. Authorization of appropriations.
`Sec. 409. Reports to Congress.
`Subtitle B--Approved Activities.
`Sec. 411. Homelessness prevention.
`Sec. 412. Emergency shelter.
`Sec. 413. Transitional housing for the homeless.
`Sec. 414. Permanent housing for homeless persons with disabilities.
`Sec. 415. Transition to permanent housing.
`Sec. 416. Development of additional approved activities.
`Subtitle C--Section 8 Single Room Occupancy
`Sec. 421. Section 8 single room occupancy provisions.
`Sec. 422. Applicability to Indian tribes.
`Subtitle D--Shelter Plus Care Program
`Part I--Shelter Plus Care: General Requirements
`Sec. 431. Purpose.
`Sec. 432. Rental housing assistance.
`Sec. 433. Supportive services requirements; matching funding.
`Sec. 434. Applications.
`Sec. 435. Selection criteria.
`Sec. 436. Required agreements.
`Sec. 437. Termination of assistance.
`Sec. 438. Definitions.
`Sec. 439. Authorization of appropriations.
`Part II--Shelter Plus Care: Homeless Rental Housing Assistance
`Sec. 441. Purpose.
`Sec. 442. Housing assistance.
`Sec. 443. Amount of assistance.
`Sec. 444. Housing standards and rent reasonableness.
`Sec. 445. Tenant rent.
`Sec. 446. Administrative fees.
`Part III--Shelter Plus Care: Moderate Rehabilitation Assistance for Single
Room Occupancy Dwellings
`Sec. 451. Purpose.
`Sec. 452. Fire and safety improvements.
`Sec. 453. Contract requirements.
`Sec. 454. Occupancy.
`Part IV--Section 202 RENTAL ASSISTANCE
`Sec. 461. Purpose.
`Sec. 462. Amount of assistance.
`Sec. 463. Housing standards and rent reasonableness.
`Sec. 464. Administrative fees.
`Subtitle E--Miscellaneous
`Sec. 471. Environmental review.'.
SEC. 304. STRATEGY TO ELIMINATE UNFIT TRANSIENT FACILITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, not
 later than 9 months after the date of enactment of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1990, identify the States and units
 of general local government which use unfit transient facilities as housing
 for homeless families with children and develop and publish in the Federal
 Register a strategy to eliminate such use by July 1, 1992. In developing
 the strategy required under this section, the Secretary shall consult
 with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, the
 Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, other appropriate
 Federal officials, appropriate States and units of general local government,
 major organizations representing homeless persons and other experts.
 (b) CONTENTS OF STRATEGY- The strategy developed under this section shall
 specify--
 (1) actions to be taken to ensure that families with children currently
 residing in unfit transient facilities will make a timely transition to
 permanent housing;
 (2) actions to be taken to provide sufficient emergency, transitional, and
 permanent housing to preclude the future use of unfit transient facilities
 as housing for homeless families with children; and
 (3) changes in Federal, State, and local statutes and regulations that are
 needed to eliminate the use of unfit transient facilities as housing for
 homeless families with children.
 (c) IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGY- To ensure that the strategy developed under
 this section is carried out within the statutory deadline, the Secretary
 of Housing and Urban Development shall be authorized to use and apply the
 following additional resources and powers:
 (1) such preferences in the allocation of resources under the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate;
 (2) such limitations upon a jurisdiction's discretion to allocate resources
 among approved activities under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act as the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
 (3) such expedited decisionmaking or waivers or revisions of regulatory
 requirements under other provisions of Federal law as the Secretary determines
 to be appropriate; and
 (4) such additional constraints on the use of funds under other provisions
 of Federal law as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 (d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section the term `unfit transient
 facility' means a facility that provides transient accommodations to
 homeless persons and families in an environment that does not meet the
 minimum standards of habitability established by the Secretary.
Subtitle B--Amendments to Current Program
SEC. 311. COMPREHENSIVE HOMELESS ASSISTANCE PLAN.
 (a) INCLUSION OF CHILD CARE STRATEGY AND FOOD DONATION STRATEGY- Section
 401(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11361(b))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (5);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and inserting a
 semicolon; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(7) a strategy provided by metropolitan cities, urban counties, Indian
 tribes, or otherwise on a local basis, for providing child care services
 within the area, which strategy shall be submitted (by the entity submitting
 the comprehensive plan) to any service providers under programs for which
 such entity receives assistance under this title;
 `(8) a strategy provided by metropolitan cities, urban counties, Indian
 tribes, or otherwise on a local basis, for providing a plan to encourage a
 program which waives certain local or State liability regulations or laws
 for those who wish to donate food to a nonprofit charitable organization or
 food bank for use in community shelters or other domiciles for the homeless,
 shall be submitted (by the entity submitting the comprehensive plan) to any
 service providers under programs for which such entities receive assistance
 under this title; and'.
 (b) INCLUSION OF INDIAN TRIBES- Section 401 of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11361) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `Assistance authorized by this title may be provided to any Indian tribe
 that is eligible to receive a grant under the emergency shelter grants
 program in any fiscal year, but only if the tribe submits biennially to
 the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development a comprehensive homeless
 assistance plan under this section.';
 (2) in subsection (b)(5), by inserting `Indian tribe,' after `State,';
 (3) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting `Indian tribe,' after `State,'
 each place it appears;
 (4) in subsection (d), by inserting `Indian tribe,' after `State,' each
 place it appears; and
 (5) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by inserting `(or tribal agency or contact)' after `State contact person';
 (B) by inserting `(or tribe)' before the comma; and
 (C) by inserting `(or tribal agency or contact person)' after `or contact
 person'.
 (c) MODIFICATION OF DEVELOPMENT AND TIMING, CONTENT, AND REVIEW STANDARDS-
 (1) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION PROCESS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF PLANS AND ANNUAL
 REPORTS- Section 401 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11361) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h) CONSULTATION-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- Each State, Indian tribe, metropolitan city, and urban
 county described in subsection (a) shall consult with, and consider the
 comments of, citizens, public and private homeless shelter and service
 providers, and local governments concerning the contents of the comprehensive
 plan and the annual progress report required under subsection (d), prior
 to their submission to the Secretary.
 `(2) MODIFICATION- Each State, Indian tribe, metropolitan city, and urban
 county described in subsection (a) may, if it considers it appropriate,
 modify the comprehensive plan and annual report to reflect the comments
 of citizens, public and private homeless shelter and service providers,
 and local governments.
 `(3) AVAILABILITY- Each State, Indian tribe, metropolitan city, and urban
 county shall make the comprehensive plan and annual report available to
 the public.
 `(4) CERTIFICATION- Each State, Indian tribe, metropolitan city, and urban
 county described in subsection (a) shall certify to the Secretary that
 citizens, public and private homeless shelter and service providers, and local
 governments were consulted concerning the contents of the comprehensive plan
 and the annual report, and that their views were considered prior to the
 submission of these documents to the Secretary, and that the comprehensive
 plan and annual report were available to the public.'.
 (2) MODIFICATION OF TIMING, CONTENT, AND REVIEW STANDARDS- Section 401 of
 the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11361) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `annually' and inserting `biennially';
 (B) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `and services' and inserting `,
 services, and programs';
 (C) in subsection (b)(3)--
 (i) by striking `and services' and inserting `, services, and programs';
 (ii) by striking `and' before `(B)'; and
 (iii) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: `, (C)
 responding to the emergency and long-term housing and service needs of the
 homeless population, (D) providing housing and supportive services for various
 homeless populations to facilitate their transition to more independent
 living, (E) providing housing and supportive services to the portions of the
 homeless population that are not capable of achieving total independence, and
 (F) preventing and reducing homelessness through (i) interventions focused
 upon individuals and families who are in danger of becoming homeless, and
 (ii) addressing systemic factors contributing to homelessness'.
SEC. 312. EMERGENCY SHELTER GRANTS PROGRAM.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The first sentence of section 417
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11377) is
 amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be appropriated to
 carry out this subtitle $125,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and $138,000,000
 for fiscal year 1992.'.
 (b) USE OF GRANTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new section:
`SEC. 418. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
 `A recipient may use up to 5 percent of any annual grant received under
 this subtitle for administrative purposes. A recipient State shall share
 the amount available for administrative purposes pursuant to the preceding
 sentence with local governments funded by the State.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents for subtitle B of title IV
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act is amended by inserting
 after the item relating to section 417 the following new item:
`Sec. 418. Administrative costs.'.
 (c) INCREASE IN AMOUNT AVAILABLE FOR SERVICES- Section 414(a)(2)(B) of
 the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a)(2)(B))
 is amended by striking `20 percent' and inserting `30 percent'.
 (d) TREATMENT OF HOMELESSNESS PREVENTION ACTIVITIES- Section 414(a)(4)
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a)(4))
 is amended by striking the last sentence and inserting the following new
 sentence: `Not more than 30 percent of the aggregate amount of all assistance
 to a State, local government, or Indian tribe under this subtitle may be
 used for activities under this paragraph.'.
 (e) REDUCTION OF REQUIRED MATCHING AMOUNTS AND CONFIDENTIALITY-
 (1) REDUCTION- Section 415(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11375(a)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `Each' the first place it appears and
 inserting `Except as provided in paragraph (2), each';
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) Each recipient under this subtitle that is a State shall be required
 to supplement the assistance provided under this subtitle with an amount
 of funds from sources other than this subtitle equal to the difference
 between the amount received under this subtitle and $100,000. If the amount
 received by the State is $100,000 or less, the State may not be required
 to supplement the assistance provided under this subtitle.'.
 (2) USE OF BENEFIT AND CONFIDENTIALITY- Section 415(c) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11375(c)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(4) in the case of a recipient that is a State, obtain any matching amounts
 required under subsection (a) in a manner so that local governments, Indian
 tribes, agencies, and local nonprofit organizations receiving assistance
 from the grant that are least capable of providing the recipient State with
 such matching amounts receive the benefit of the $100,000 subtrahend under
 subsection (a)(2); and
 `(5) develop and implement procedures to ensure the confidentiality of
 records pertaining to any individual provided family violence prevention
 or treatment services under any project assisted under this subtitle and
 that the address or location of any family violence shelter project assisted
 under this subtitle will, except with written authorization of the person or
 persons responsible for the operation of such shelter, not be made public.'.
 (3) COMPREHENSIVE HOMELESS ASSISTANCE PLAN- Section 401(b) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11361(b)), as amended by
 the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended by adding at the
 end the following new paragraph:
 `(9) with respect to a comprehensive plan submitted by a State applying
 for a grant under the emergency shelter grants program under subtitle B,
 a strategy for obtaining any matching amounts required under section 415(a)
 in a manner so that local governments, Indian tribes, agencies, and local
 nonprofit organizations receiving assistance from the grant that are least
 capable of providing the recipient State with such matching amounts receive
 the benefit of the $100,000 subtrahend under paragraph (2) of such section.'.
 (f) INDIAN TRIBE ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS-
 (1) DEFINITION OF INDIAN TRIBES- Section 411 of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new paragraph:
 `(10) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such term in section
 102(a)(17) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.'.
 (2) GRANT ASSISTANCE- Section 412 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11372) is amended by striking `States and local
 governments' and inserting `States and local governments, and for Indian
 tribes,'.
 (3) ALLOCATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE- Section 413(a) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11373(a)) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `, and to Indian tribes,' after `States)'; and
 (B) by inserting `, or for Indian tribes' after `urban county' each place
 it appears.
 (4) DISTRIBUTION TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS- The first sentence of section
 413(c) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11373(c))
 is amended by inserting `or Indian tribe' after `local government'.
 (5) REALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Section 413(d)(3) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11373(d)(3)) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `or Indian tribe' after `State' each place it appears; and
 (B) by inserting `, or other Indian tribes, as applicable,' after `counties'.
 (6) ESSENTIAL SERVICES CAP- Section 414(a)(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a)(2)) is amended--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `or Indian tribe' after `local
 government'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `or local government' and inserting
 `, local government, or Indian tribe'.
 (7) INITIAL ALLOCATION OF ASSISTANCE- Section 416(b) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11376(b)) is amended by
 inserting `Indian tribe,' after `State,'.
 (g) MINIMUM STANDARDS OF HABITABILITY- Section 416 of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11376) is amended by adding at the end
 the following:
 `(c) MINIMUM STANDARDS OF HABITABILITY- The Secretary shall prescribe
 such minimum standards of habitability as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate to ensure that emergency shelters assisted under this section
 are environments that provide appropriate privacy, safety, and sanitary and
 other health-related conditions for homeless persons and families. Grantees
 are authorized to establish standards of habitability in addition to those
 prescribed by the Secretary.'.
 (h) CONSISTENCY WITH HOUSING STRATEGY- Section 415(c) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11375(c)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of clause (2);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (3) and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(4) activities undertaken by the recipient with assistance under this
 subtitle are consistent with any housing strategy submitted by the grantee
 in accordance with section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
 Housing Act.'.
SEC. 313. SUPPORTIVE HOUSING DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 428(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11388(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this subtitle $125,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and $150,000,000
 for fiscal year 1992.'.
 (b) MAXIMUM NUMBER OF HANDICAPPED RESIDENTS IN PERMANENT HOUSING FOR
 HANDICAPPED- Section 422(12)(B) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11382(12)(B)) is amended by inserting after
 `handicapped homeless persons' the second place it appears the following:
 `(or 16 such persons, but only if not more than 20 percent of the units in
 a project are designated for such persons)'.
 (c) CONVERSION OF ADVANCES TO GRANTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 423(a)(1) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)(1)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `An advance' and inserting `A grant'; and
 (B) by striking `an advance' and inserting `a grant'.
 (2) CONVERSION OF ADVANCE- Section 423(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(b)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(b) REPAYMENT OF ADVANCE- ' and inserting the following:
 `(b) REPAYMENT OR CONVERSION OF ADVANCE-
 `(1) REPAYMENT- '; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) CONVERSION- At such times as the Secretary may determine, and in
 accordance with such terms and conditions, and accounting and other
 procedures, as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may convert an
 advance made under subsection (a)(1) to a grant.'.
 (d) OPERATING COST PAYMENTS- Section 423(a)(3) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) Annual payments for operating costs of transitional housing (without
 regard to whether the housing is an existing structure), not to exceed 75
 percent of the annual operating costs of such housing, and any recipient
 may reapply for such assistance or for the renewal of such assistance
 for use during the 10-year period under section 424(a)(2)(D) (unless such
 assistance is no longer necessary, in the determination of the Secretary),
 and for operating costs for permanent housing for handicapped homeless
 persons, not to exceed 75 percent of the annual operating costs of such
 housing in any year during the 10-year period under section 424(a)(2)(D),
 and any recipient may reapply for such assistance or for renewal of such
 assistance for use during such period (unless such assistance is no longer
 necessary, in the determination of the Secretary).'.
 (e) ELIGIBILITY OF NEW CONSTRUCTION- Section 423(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)), as amended by the preceding
 provisions of this section, is further amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as paragraphs (4) through
 (6), respectively;
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) A grant, in an amount not to exceed $400,000, for the new construction
 of a structure for use in the provision of supportive housing.'; and
 (3) in the last sentence, by striking `paragraphs (1) and (2)' and inserting
 `paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)'.
 (f) SITE CONTROL REQUIREMENT- Section 424(a)(3) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(a)(3)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `(3) The Secretary' and inserting the following`(3)(A)
 Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) The Secretary may waive the requirement under subparagraph (A) for
 any proposed project for which the Secretary determines such requirement is
 inapplicable because, under the application, the families and individuals
 served own or control, or will eventually own or control, the site.'.
 (g) CHILD CARE SERVICES- Section 423(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)), as amended by the preceding provisions
 of this section, is further amended by inserting after paragraph (5)
 the following:
 `(6) A grant to establish and operate a child care services program for
 homeless families as follows:
 `(A) A program under this paragraph shall include--
 `(i) establishing, licensing, and operating an on-site child care facility
 for the residents of transitional housing; or
 `(ii) making contributions for the child care costs of residents of
 transitional housing to existing community child care programs and
 facilities; and
 `(iii) counseling designed to inform the residents of transitional housing
 of public and private child care services for which they are eligible.
 `(B) A grant under this paragraph for any child care services program
 shall not exceed the amount equal to 75 percent of the cost of operating
 the program for a period of up to 5 years.
 `(C) Child care services provided with respect to a child care services
 program assisted under this paragraph shall meet any applicable State and
 local laws and regulations.'.
 (h) ELIMINATION OF SITE CONTROL AND EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AS
 SELECTION CRITERIA- Section 424(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (6), by inserting `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) by striking paragraphs (7) and (8); and
 (3) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (7).
 (i) CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENT FOR DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTERS- Section 424(c)
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(c))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (4), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) to develop and implement procedures to ensure the confidentiality of
 records pertaining to any individual provided family violence prevention
 or treatment services under any project assisted under this subtitle and
 that the address or location of any family violence shelter project assisted
 under this subtitle will, except with written authorization of the person or
 persons responsible for the operation of such shelter, not be made public.'.
 (j) SHORT-TERM LEASES-
 (1) 10-YEAR REQUIREMENT- Section 424(a)(2)(D) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384(a)(2)(D)) is amended by inserting
 before the semicolon at the end the following: `, except that in the case
 of projects not receiving an advance or grant under paragraph (1), (2), or
 (3) of section 423(a), assurances under this subparagraph shall be made
 annually that the project will be operated for the purpose specified in
 the application for such year'.
 (2) RENEWED FUNDING FOR SHORT-TERM LEASE PROJECTS- Section 424 of the
 Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f) RENEWED FUNDING FOR SHORT-TERM LEASE PROJECTS- The Secretary may
 not provide assistance under paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section 423(a)
 to any project not receiving assistance under paragraph (1), (2), or (3)
 of such section unless assurances have been made under subsection (a)(2)(D)
 of this section that the project will be operated for the purpose specified
 in the application for the year for which such assistance is provided.'.
 (k) INDIAN TRIBE ELIGIBILITY-
 (1) DEFINITIONS- Section 422 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11382) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting `Indian tribe,' after `State,'; and
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (14) as paragraphs (5) through
 (15), respectively; and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
 `(4) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such term in section
 102(a)(17) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.'.
 (2) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- Section 424 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11384) is amended by inserting `or Indian tribe'
 after `State' each place it appears.
 (3) MATCHING FUNDS- Section 425 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11385) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a), by inserting `or Indian tribe' after `State'; and
 (B) in subsection (b), by striking `State or local' and inserting `State,
 tribal, or local'.
SEC. 314. SUPPLEMENTAL ASSISTANCE FOR FACILITIES TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The first sentence of section 434
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11394) is
 amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be appropriated to
 carry out this subtitle $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991 and 1992.'.
 (b) SHORT-TERM LEASES-
 (1) 10-YEAR REQUIREMENT- Section 432(d)(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11392(d)(2)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `leased,'; and
 (B) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: `, except
 that in the case of any leased property receiving assistance under this
 subtitle other than for lease of the property, assurances under this paragraph
 shall be made annually that the project will be operated to assist homeless
 individuals for such year'.
 (2) RENEWED FUNDING FOR SHORT-TERM LEASE PROJECTS- Section 432 of the
 Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11392) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h) RENEWED FUNDING FOR SHORT-TERM LEASE PROJECTS- The Secretary may not
 provide assistance under this subtitle for any leased property for any year
 unless assurances under subsection (d)(2) of this section have been made
 that the project will be operated to assist homeless individuals for the
 year for which such assistance is provided.'.
 (c) CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENT FOR DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTERS- Section 432(d)
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11392(d))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
 `(4) has furnished assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant
 will develop and implement procedures to ensure the confidentiality of
 records pertaining to any individual provided family violence prevention or
 treatment services under any project assisted under this subtitle and that
 the address or location of any family violence shelter project assisted under
 this subtitle will, except with written authorization of the person or persons
 responsible for the operation of such shelter, not be made public; and'.
 (d) SITE CONTROL REQUIREMENT- Section 432(e) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11392(e)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `(e) SITE CONTROL- The Secretary' and inserting the following:
 `(e) SITE CONTROL-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) EXCEPTION- The Secretary may waive the requirement under paragraph (1)
 for any proposed project for which the Secretary determines such requirement
 is inapplicable because, under the application, the families and individuals
 served own or control, or will eventually own or control, the site.'.
SEC. 315. SECTION 8 ASSISTANCE FOR SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY DWELLINGS.
 (a) INCREASE IN BUDGET AUTHORITY- Section 441(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) INCREASE IN BUDGET AUTHORITY- The budget authority available under
 section 5(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for assistance under
 section 8(e)(2) of such Act is authorized to be increased by $79,000,000
 on or after October 1, 1990, and by $82,400,000 on or after October 1, 1991.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY TO INDIAN HOUSING AUTHORITIES- Section 441 of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) APPLICABILITY TO INDIAN HOUSING AUTHORITIES- Amounts made available for
 assistance under this section shall be available through contracts between
 the Secretary and Indian housing authorities, and the provisions of this
 section regarding public housing authorities shall include and apply to
 Indian housing authorities.'.
SEC. 316. HOUSING AFFORDABILITY STRATEGY REQUIREMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 401 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11361) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 401. HOUSING AFFORDABILITY STRATEGY.
 `Assistance may be made under this title only if the grantee certifies that
 it is following--
 `(1) a current housing affordability strategy which has been approved by the
 Secretary in accordance with section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National
 Affordable Housing Act, or
 `(2) a comprehensive homeless assistance plan which was approved by the
 Secretary during the 180-day period beginning on the date of enactment of
 the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, or during such longer
 period as may be prescribed by the Secretary in any case for good cause.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on October 1, 1991.
SEC. 317. SHELTER PLUS CARE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Subtitle F--Shelter Plus Care Program
`PART I--SHELTER PLUS CARE: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
`SEC. 451. PURPOSE.
 `The purpose of the program authorized under this subtitle is to provide
 rental housing assistance, in connection with supportive services funded
 from sources other than this subtitle, to homeless persons with disabilities
 (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic problems
 with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
 and related diseases) and the families of such persons.
`SEC. 452. RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized, in accordance with the
 provisions of this subtitle, to provide rental housing assistance under
 parts II, III, and IV.
 `(b) FUNDING LIMITATIONS- To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary
 shall reserve not less than 50 percent of all funds provided under this
 subtitle for homeless individuals who are seriously mentally ill or have
 chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both.
`SEC. 453. SUPPORTIVE SERVICES REQUIREMENTS.
 `(a) Matching Funding-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each recipient shall be required to supplement the
 assistance provided under this subtitle with an equal amount of funds for
 supportive services from sources other than this subtitle. Each recipient
 shall certify to the Secretary its compliance with this paragraph, and shall
 include with the certification a description of the sources and amounts of
 such supplemental funds.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF MATCHING AMOUNTS- In calculating the amount of
 supplemental funds provided under this subtitle, a recipient may include
 the value of any lease on a building, any salary paid to staff to carry
 out the program of the recipient, and the value of the time and services
 contributed by volunteers to carry out the program of the recipient at a
 rate determined by the Secretary.
 `(b) RECAPTURE- If the supportive services and funding for the supportive
 services required by this section are not provided, the Secretary may
 recapture any unexpended housing assistance.
`SEC 454. APPLICATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- An application for rental housing assistance under this
 subtitle shall be submitted by an applicant in such forms and in accordance
 with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish.
 `(b) MINIMUM CONTENTS- The Secretary shall require that an application
 identify the need for the assistance in the community to be served and
 shall contain at a minimum--
 `(1) a request for housing assistance under part II, III, or IV, or a
 combination, specifying the number of units requested and the amount of
 necessary budget authority;
 `(2) a description of the size and characteristics of the population of
 eligible persons;
 `(3) an identification of the need for the program in the community to
 be served;
 `(4) the identity of the proposed service provider or providers (which may
 be, or include, the applicant) and a statement of the qualifications of
 the provider or providers;
 `(5) a description of the supportive services that the applicant proposes
 to assure will be available for eligible persons;
 `(6) a description of the resources that are expected to be made available
 to provide the supportive services required by section 453;
 `(7) a description of the mechanisms for developing a housing and supportive
 services plan for each person and for monitoring each person's progress in
 meeting that plan;
 `(8) reasonable assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the supportive
 services will be provided for the full term of the housing assistance
 under part II, III, or IV, or a combination; and a certification from the
 applicant that it will fund the supportive services itself if the planned
 resources do not become available for any reason;
 `(9) a certification by the public official responsible for submitting
 the comprehensive housing affordability strategy under section 105 of
 the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act that the proposed
 activities are consistent with the approved housing strategy of the unit
 of general local government within which housing assistance under this
 subtitle will be provided;
 `(10) a plan for--
 `(A) in the case of rental housing assistance under part II, providing
 housing assistance;
 `(B) identifying and selecting eligible persons to participate, including a
 proposed definition of the term `chronic problems with alcohol, other drugs,
 or both';
 `(C) coordinating the provision of housing assistance and supportive services;
 `(D) ensuring that the service providers are providing supportive services
 adequate to meet the needs of the persons served;
 `(E) obtaining participation of eligible persons who have previously not
 been assisted under programs designed to assist the homeless or have been
 considered not capable of participation in these programs; this plan shall
 specifically address how homeless persons, as defined in section 103(a)(2)(C),
 (and the families of such persons) will be brought into the program;
 `(11) in the case of housing assistance under part III, identification of
 the specific structures that the recipient is proposing for rehabilitation
 and assistance; and
 `(12) in the case of housing assistance under part IV, identification of
 the nonprofit entity that will be the owner or lessor of the property,
 and identification of the specific structures in which the nonprofit entity
 proposes to house eligible persons.
`SEC. 455. SELECTION CRITERIA.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish selection criteria for a
 national competition for assistance under this subtitle, which shall include--
 `(1) the ability of the applicant to develop and operate the proposed
 assisted housing and supportive services program, taking into account the
 quality of any ongoing program of the applicant;
 `(2) geographic diversity among the projects to be assisted;
 `(3) the need for a program providing housing assistance and supportive
 services for eligible persons in the area to be served;
 `(4) the quality of the proposed program for providing supportive services
 and housing assistance;
 `(5) the extent to which the proposed funding for the supportive services
 is or will be available;
 `(6) the extent to which the project would meet the needs of the homeless
 persons proposed to be served by the program;
 `(7) the extent to which the program integrates program recipients into
 the community served by the program; and
 `(8) the cost-effectiveness of the proposed program; and
 `(9) such other factors as the Secretary specifies in regulations to be
 appropriate for purposes of carrying out the program established by this
 subtitle in an effective and efficient manner.
 `(b) FUNDING LIMITATION- No more than 10 percent of the assistance made
 available under this subtitle for any fiscal year may be used for programs
 located within any one unit of general local government.
`SEC. 456. REQUIRED AGREEMENTS.
 `The Secretary may not approve assistance under this subtitle unless the
 applicant agrees--
 `(1) to operate the proposed program in accordance with the provisions of
 this subtitle;
 `(2) to conduct an ongoing assessment of the housing assistance and supportive
 services required by the participants in the program;
 `(3) to assure the adequate provision of supportive services to the
 participants in the program; and
 `(4) to comply with such other terms and conditions as the Secretary may
 establish for purposes of carrying out the program in an effective and
 efficient manner.
`SEC 457. TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) AUTHORITY- If an eligible individual who receives assistance under this
 subtitle violates program requirements, the recipient may terminate assistance
 in accordance with the process established pursuant to subsection (b).
 `(b) PROCEDURE- In terminating assistance under this section, the recipient
 shall provide a formal process that recognizes the rights of individuals
 receiving such assistance to due process of law.
`SEC. 458. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this subtitle:
 `(1) The term `acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases'
 has the meaning given such term in section 853 of the Cranston-Gonzalez
 National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(2) The term `applicant' means--
 `(A) in the case of rental housing assistance under parts II and IV, a State,
 unit of general local government, or Indian tribe; and
 `(B) in the case of single room occupancy housing under the section 8
 moderate rehabilitation program under part III (i) a State, unit of general
 local government, or Indian tribe (that shall be responsible for assuring
 the provision of supportive services and the overall administration of
 the program), and (ii) a public housing agency (that shall be primarily
 responsible for administering the housing assistance under part III).
 `(3) The term `eligible person' means a homeless person with disabilities
 (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic problems
 with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
 and related diseases) and the family of such a person.
 `(4) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such term in section
 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
 `(5) The term `nonprofit organization' has the meaning given such term by
 section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(6) The term `person with disabilities' has the same meaning given the
 term in section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
 `(7) The term `public housing agency' has the meaning given such term in
 section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 `(8) The term `recipient' means an applicant approved for participation in
 the program authorized under this subtitle.
 `(9) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development.
 `(10) The term `seriously mentally ill' means having a severe and persistent
 mental or emotional impairment that seriously limits a person's ability to
 live independently.
 `(11) The term `State' means each of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
 American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the
 Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
 `(12) The term `supportive services' means assistance that the Secretary
 determines (A) addresses the special needs of eligible persons; and (B)
 provides appropriate services or assists such persons in obtaining appropriate
 services, including health care, mental health services, substance and alcohol
 abuse services, child care services, case management services, counseling,
 supervision, education, job training, and other services essential for
 achieving and maintaining independent living. Inpatient acute hospital care
 shall not qualify as a supportive service.
 `(13) The term `unit of general local government' has the meaning given
 such term in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
`SEC. 459. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of the housing program under part II of this
 subtitle, there are authorized to be appropriated $80,400,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, and $167,200,000 for fiscal year 1992.
 `(b) PART III- For purposes of the housing program under part III of this
 subtitle, the budget authority available under section 5(c) of the United
 States Housing Act of 1937 for assistance under section 8(e)(2) of such Act
 is authorized to be increased by $24,800,000 on or after October 1, 1990,
 and $54,200,000 on or after October 1, 1991.
 `(c) PART IV- For purposes of the housing program under part IV of this
 subtitle, there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, and $37,200,000 for fiscal year 1992.
 `(d) AVAILABILITY- Sums appropriated under this section shall remain
 available until expended.
`PART II--SHELTER PLUS CARE: HOMELESS RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 461. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 459(a) to provide rental housing assistance in accordance with the
 requirements of this part.
`SEC. 462. HOUSING ASSISTANCE.
 `Where necessary to assure that the provision of supportive services to
 persons is feasible, a recipient may require that a person participating
 in the program live (1) in a particular structure or unit for up to the
 first year of participation, and (2) within a particular geographic area
 for the full period of participation or the period remaining after the
 period referred to in paragraph (1).
`SEC. 463. AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.
 `The contract with a recipient for assistance under this part shall be for a
 term of 5 years. Each contract shall provide that the recipient shall receive
 aggregate amounts not to exceed the appropriate existing housing fair market
 rent limitation under section 8(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937
 in effect at the time the application is approved. At the option of the
 recipient and subject to the availability of such amounts, the recipient may
 receive in any year (1) up to 25 percent of such amounts or (2) such higher
 percentage as the Secretary may approve upon a demonstration satisfactory to
 the Secretary that the recipient has entered into firm financial commitments
 to ensure that the housing assistance described in the application will be
 provided for the full term of the contract. Any amounts not needed for a
 year may be used to increase the amount available in subsequent years. Each
 recipient shall ensure that the assistance provided by the Secretary, and
 any amounts provided from other sources, are managed so that the housing
 assistance described in the application is provided for the full term of
 the assistance.
`SEC. 464. HOUSING STANDARDS AND RENT REASONABLENESS.
 `(a) STANDARDS REQUIRED- The Secretary shall require that--
 `(1) before any assistance may be provided to or on behalf of the person,
 each unit shall be inspected by the applicant directly or by another entity,
 including the local public housing agency (or if no such agency exists in
 the applicable area, an entity selected by the Secretary), to determine
 that the unit meets the housing quality standards under section 8 of the
 United States Housing Act of 1937 and that the occupancy charge for the
 dwelling unit is reasonable; and
 `(2) the recipient shall make at least annual inspections of each unit
 during the contract term.
 `(b) PROHIBITION- No assistance may be provided for a dwelling unit (1) for
 which the occupancy charge is not reasonable, or (2) which fails to meet
 the housing standards, unless the owner promptly corrects the deficiency
 and the recipient verifies the correction.
`SEC. 465. TENANT RENT.
 `Each tenant shall pay as rent an amount determined in accordance with the
 provisions of section 3(a)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
`SEC. 466. ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
 `From amounts made available under appropriations Acts, the Secretary
 shall make amounts available to pay the entity administering the housing
 assistance an administrative fee in an amount determined appropriate by
 the Secretary for the costs of administering the housing assistance.
`PART III--SHELTER PLUS CARE: SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION ASSISTANCE
FOR SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY DWELLINGS
`SEC. 471. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 459(b) of this subtitle only in connection with the moderate rehabilitation of
 single room occupancy housing described in section 8(n) of the United States
 Housing Act of 1937 for occupancy by homeless persons. However, amounts made
 available under section 459(b) may be used in connection with the moderate
 rehabilitation of efficiency units if the building owner agrees to pay the
 additional cost of rehabilitating and operating the efficiency units.
`SEC. 472. FIRE AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS.
 `Each contract for housing assistance payments entered into using the
 authority provided under section 459(b) shall require the installation
 of a sprinkler system that protects all major spaces, hard-wired smoke
 detectors, and such other fire and safety improvements as may be required
 by State or local law. For purposes of this section, the term `major spaces'
 means hallways, large common areas, and other areas specified in local fire,
 building, or safety codes.
`SEC. 473. CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
 `Each contract for annual contributions entered into by the Secretary with
 a public housing agency to obligate the authority made available under
 section 459(b) shall--
 `(1) commit the Secretary to make the authority available to the public
 housing agency for an aggregate period of 10 years, and require that any
 amendments increasing the authority shall be available for the remainder
 of such 10-year period;
 `(2) provide the Secretary with the option to renew the contract for an
 additional period of 10 years, subject to the availability of authority; and
 `(3) provide that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, first priority
 for occupancy of housing rehabilitated under this part III shall be given
 to homeless persons.
`SEC. 474. OCCUPANCY.
 `(a) OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT- The occupancy agreement between the tenant and
 the owner shall be for at least one month.
 `(b) VACANCY PAYMENTS- If an eligible person vacates a dwelling unit before
 the expiration of the occupancy agreement, no assistance payment may be made
 with respect to the unit after the month during which the unit was vacated,
 unless it is occupied by another eligible person.
`PART IV--SHELTER PLUS CARE: SECTION 202 RENTAL ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 481. PURPOSE.
 `The Secretary is authorized to use amounts made available under section
 459(c) of this subtitle only in connection with the provision of rental
 housing assistance under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 or section
 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act for very
 low-income eligible persons. The contract between the Secretary and the
 recipient shall require the recipient to enter into contracts with owners or
 lessors of housing meeting the requirements of section 202 or section 811,
 as appropriate for the purpose of providing such rental housing assistance.
`SEC. 482. AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.
 `The contract with a recipient of assistance under this part shall be for
 a term of 5 years. Each contract shall provide that the recipient shall
 receive aggregate amounts not to exceed the appropriate existing housing fair
 market rent limitation under section 8(c) of the United States Housing Act
 of 1937 in effect at the time the application is approved. Each recipient
 shall ensure that the assistance provided by the Secretary, and any amounts
 provided from other sources, are managed so that the housing assistance
 described in the application is provided for the full term of the assistance.
`SEC. 483. HOUSING STANDARDS AND RENT REASONABLENESS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall require that (1) the recipient inspect
 each unit before any assistance may be provided to or on behalf of the
 person to determine that the occupancy charge for the housing being or to be
 provided is reasonable and that each unit meets housing standards established
 by the Secretary for the purpose of this part, and (2) the recipient make
 at least annual inspections of each unit during the contract term.
 `(b) PROHIBITION- No assistance may be provided for a dwelling unit (1)
 for which the occupancy charge is not reasonable, or (2) which fails to
 meet the housing standards, unless the owner or lessor, as the case may be,
 promptly corrects the deficiency and the recipient verifies the correction.
`SEC. 484. ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
 `From amounts made available under appropriations Acts, the Secretary shall
 make amounts available to pay the nonprofit entity that is the owner or
 lessor of the housing assisted under this part an administrative fee in an
 amount determined appropriate by the Secretary for the costs of administering
 the housing assistance.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than 180 days after the date funds authorized
 under section 459 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, as
 amended by this section, first become available for obligation, the Secretary
 shall by notice establish such requirements as may be necessary to carry
 out the provisions of subtitle F of title IV of that Act. Such requirements
 shall be subject to section 553 of title 5, United States Code. The Secretary
 shall issue regulations based on the initial notice before the expiration
 of the eight-month period following the date of the notice. The Secretary
 shall issue regulations based on the initial notice before the expiration of
 the 8-month period following the date of the notice. In developing program
 guidelines and regulations to implement such subtitle, the Secretary of
 Housing and Urban Development may consult with the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services with respect to supportive services aspects of this title.
 (c) TRANSITION PROVISIONS- Amounts appropriated for use under subtitle D of
 title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, as it existed
 immediately before the date of the enactment of this section, that are or
 become available for obligation shall be available for use under subtitle
 F of title IV of the McKinney Act, as amended by this section.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- That part of the table of contents of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act that relates to title IV of such Act
 is amended by adding at the end the following new items:
`Subtitle F--Shelter Plus Care Program
`Part I--Shelter Plus Care: General Requirements
`Sec. 451. Purpose.
`Sec. 452. Rental housing assistance.
`Sec. 453. Supportive services requirements; matching funding.
`Sec. 454. Applications.
`Sec. 455. Selection criteria.
`Sec. 456. Required agreements.
`Sec. 457. Termination of assistance.
`Sec. 458. Definitions.
`Sec. 459. Authorization of appropriations.
`Part II--Shelter Plus Care: Homeless Rental Housing Assistance
`Sec. 461. Purpose.
`Sec. 462. Housing assistance.
`Sec. 463. Amount of assistance.
`Sec. 464. Housing standards and rent reasonableness.
`Sec. 465. Tenant rent.
`Sec. 466. Administrative fees.
`Part III--Shelter Plus Care: Moderate Rehabilitation Assistance for Single
Room Occupancy Dwellings
`Sec. 471. Purpose.
`Sec. 472. Fire and safety improvements.
`Sec. 473. Contract requirements.
`Sec. 474. Occupancy.
`Part IV--Section 202 Rental Assistance
`Sec. 481. Purpose.
`Sec. 482. Amount of assistance.
`Sec. 483. Housing standards and rent reasonableness.
`Sec. 484. Administrative fees.'.
Subtitle C--Effective Date
SEC. 321. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 If the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act is enacted
 before the enactment of this Act, the provisions of this title and the
 amendments made by this title shall not take effect. This section shall
 apply notwithstanding any other provision relating to effective date or
 applicability contained in this title.
TITLE IV--USE OF PUBLIC REAL PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS AND CENSUS STUDY
SEC. 401. USE OF CERTAIN PUBLIC REAL PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 501 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11411) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 501. USE OF UNUTILIZED AND UNDERUTILIZED PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND REAL
PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS.
 `(a) IDENTIFICATION OF SUITABLE PROPERTY- The Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development shall, on a quarterly basis, request information from each
 landholding agency regarding Federal public buildings and other Federal
 real properties (including fixtures) that are excess property or surplus
 property or that are described as unutilized or underutilized in surveys
 by the heads of landholding agencies under section 202(b)(2) of the Federal
 Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 483(b)(2)). No
 later than 25 days after receiving a request from the Secretary, the head of
 each landholding agency shall transmit such information to the Secretary. No
 later than 30 days after receiving such information, the Secretary shall
 identify which of those buildings and other properties are suitable for
 use to assist the homeless.
 `(b) AVAILABILITY OF PROPERTY- (1) The Secretary shall promptly notify each
 Federal agency with respect to any property of that agency that the Secretary
 has identified under subsection (a). No later than 45 days after receipt of
 such a notice, the head of the appropriate landholding agency shall transmit
 to the Secretary the agency's response to property identifications contained
 in such notification, which shall include--
 `(A) in the case of unutilized or underutilized property--
 `(i) a statement of intention to determine the property excess to the
 agency's needs;
 `(ii) a statement of intention to make the property available for use to
 assist the homeless; or
 `(iii) a statement of the reasons (including a full explanation of the need)
 the property  cannot be determined excess to the agency's needs or made
 available for use to assist the homeless; and
 `(B) in the case of excess property--
 `(i) a statement that there is no other compelling Federal need for the
 property and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or
 `(ii) a statement that there is further and compelling Federal need for the
 property (including a full explanation of such need) and that, therefore,
 the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.
 `(2)(A) All properties identified by the Secretary under subsection (a)
 shall be available for application--
 `(i) in the case of property other than surplus property, for use to assist
 the homeless in accordance with the provisions of this section; and
 `(ii) in the case of surplus property, for use to assist the homeless either
 in accordance with this section or as a public health use in accordance
 with paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 203(k) of the Federal Property and
 Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k) (1) and (4)).
 `(3) The Secretary shall maintain a written public record of--
 `(A) the identification of buildings and other properties by the Secretary
 under this subsection and the reasons for such identifications; and
 `(B) the responses of landholding agencies to such identifications.
 `(c) PUBLICATION OF PROPERTIES- (1)(A) No later than 15 days after the
 last day of the 45-day period provided for under subsection (b)(1), the
 Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register--
 `(i)  a list of all properties reviewed by the Secretary under subsection
 (a); and
 `(ii) a list of all properties that are available under subsection (b)(2)
 for application for use to assist the homeless.
 `(B) Each publication of properties shall include a description and the
 location of each property (including the address and zip code) and the
 current classification of each property as unutilized, underutilized,
 excess property, or surplus property.
 `(C) The Secretary shall make available to the public upon request all
 information in the possession of the Department of Housing and Urban
 Development (other than valuation information), regardless of format, about
 all properties reviewed and not identified as being suitable for use to assist
 the homeless, including the reasons such properties were not so identified.
 `(D) The Secretary shall publish separately, on an annual basis, all
 properties identified as being suitable for use to assist the homeless, but
 reported to be unavailable, and the reasons such properties were unavailable.
 `(2)(A) No later than 15 days after the last day of the 45-day period
 provided for under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall transmit a copy
 of the list of available properties published under paragraph (1)(A)(ii)
 to the Interagency Council on the Homeless. The Council shall immediately
 distribute to all State and regional homeless coordinators area-relevant
 portions of the list.
 `(B) The Secretary, the Administrator, and the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services shall make such efforts as are necessary to ensure the widest
 possible dissemination of the information on such list.
 `(C) The Secretary shall establish a toll-free number to provide the public
 with specific information about properties on such list.
 `(3) The Secretary shall make available to the public upon request all
 information (other than valuation information) regardless of format in
 the possession of the Department of Housing and Urban Development about
 the properties published under paragraph (1)(A), including environmental
 assessment data. The Secretary shall maintain a current list of agency
 contacts for making referrals of inquiries for information about specific
 properties.
 `(4)(A) On December 31 of each year, the head of each landholding agency
 shall report to the Secretary the current availability status and the
 current classification of each property controlled by the agency, that--
 `(i) was included in a list published in that year by the Secretary under
 paragraph (1)(A)(ii); and
 `(ii) remains available for application for use to assist the homeless or
 has become available for application during that year.
 `(B) No later than February 15 each year, the Secretary shall publish in
 the Federal Register a list of all properties reported under subparagraph
 (A) for the preceding year and the current classification of the properties.
 `(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), property shall be considered to remain
 available for application for use to assist the homeless if, subsequent to
 the 60-day holding period provided under subsection (d)--
 `(i) no application or written expression of interest has been made under
 any law for use of the property for any purpose; and
 `(ii) the Administrator has not received a bona fide offer to purchase the
 property or advertised for the sale of the property by public auction.
 `(d) HOLDING PERIOD- (1) Properties published under subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii)
 as available for application for use to assist the homeless shall not be
 available for any other purpose for a period of 60 days beginning on the
 date of such publication.
 `(2) If written notice of intent to apply for such a property for use
 to assist the homeless is received by the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services within the 60-day period described under paragraph (1), such
 property may not be made available for any other purpose until the date
 the Secretary of Health and Human Services or other appropriate landholding
 agency has completed action on the application submitted under subsection
 (e) with respect to that written notice of intent.
 `(3) Property that is reviewed by the Secretary under subsection (a) and that
 is not identified by the Secretary as being suitable for use to assist the
 homeless may not be made available for any other purpose for 20 days after
 the determination of unsuitability to allow for review of the determination
 at the request of the representative of the homeless. The Secretary shall
 disseminate immediately this information to the regional offices of the
 Department of Housing and Urban Development and to the Interagency Council
 on the Homeless.
 `(4)(A) Written notice of intent to apply for a property published under
 subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii) may be filed at any time after the 60-day period
 described in paragraph (1) has expired. In such case, an application
 submitted pursuant to the notice may be approved for disposal for use to
 assist the homeless only if the property remains available for application
 for use to assist the homeless. If the property remains available, the use
 to assist the homeless shall be given priority of consideration over other
 competing disposal opportunities under section 203 of the Federal Property
 and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484), except as provided
 in subsection (f)(3)(A).
 `(B) Surplus property for which an application has been approved shall
 be assigned promptly to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for
 disposition in accordance with and subject to subsection (f).
 `(e) APPLICATION FOR PROPERTY- (1) A representative of the homeless may
 submit an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for any
 property that is published under subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii) as available for
 application for use to assist the homeless.
 `(2) No later than 90 days after the submission of written notice of intent
 to apply for a property, an applicant shall submit a complete application
 to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Secretary of Health and
 Human Services shall, with the concurrence of the appropriate landholding
 agency, grant reasonable extensions.
 `(3) No later than 25 days after receipt of a completed application, the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services shall review, make all determinations,
 and complete all actions on the application. The Secretary of Health and
 Human Services shall maintain a written public record of all actions taken
 in response to an application.
 `(f) MAKING PROPERTY AVAILABLE TO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE HOMELESS- (1) Subject
 to the provisions of this subsection, property for which the Secretary of
 Health and Human Services has approved an application under subsection (e)
 shall be made promptly available by permit or lease, or by deed as a public
 health use under paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 203(k) of the Federal
 Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k)(1) and
 (4)), to the representative of the homeless that submitted the application.
 `(2) Unutilized underutilized property that is the subject of an agency's
 statement of intention under subsection (b)(1)(A)(ii) shall be made promptly
 available by the appropriate landholding agency to the approved applicant
 by lease or permit for a term of not less than 1 year, unless the applicant
 requests a shorter term.
 `(3)(A) In disposing of surplus property by deed or lease under section
 203 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40
 U.S.C. 484), the Administrator and the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 shall give priority of consideration to uses to assist the homeless, unless
 the Administrator or the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines
 that a competing request for the property under section 203(k) of such Act
 is so meritorious and compelling as to outweigh the needs of the homeless.
 `(B) Whenever the Administrator or the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services makes a determination under subparagraph (A), the Administrator
 or the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall transmit to the
 appropriate committees of the Congress an explanatory statement detailing
 the need satisfied by conveyance of the surplus property and the reasons
 for determining that such need was so meritorious and compelling as to
 outweigh the needs of the homeless.
 `(4) For any property made available by lease to a representative of the
 homeless before the date of the enactment of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Amendments Act of 1990, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 may, upon written request by the representative, convey such property by deed
 to the representative in accordance with, and subject to the requirements
 of, section 203(k) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act
 of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k)). The lease term shall not be affected if a deed
 is not granted.
 `(g) RECORDS- The Secretary shall maintain a written public record of--
 `(1) the reasons for determinations of the Secretary under this section
 that property is suitable or unsuitable for use to assist the homeless; and
 `(2) the responses of landholding agencies under subsection (b)(1).
 `(h) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 `(1) the term `Administrator' means the Administrator of General Services;
 `(2) each of the terms `excess property' and `surplus property' has
 the meaning given that term under section 3 of the Federal Property and
 Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 472);
 `(3) the term `landholding agency' means a Federal department or agency
 with statutory authority to control real property;
 `(4) the term `representative of the homeless' means a State or local
 government agency, or private nonprofit organization, which provides services
 to the homeless; and
 `(5) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and Urban
 Development, except as otherwise provided.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENT- The amendment made by subsection (a)
 shall be effective 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (c) UNUTILIZED AND UNDERUTILIZED PROPERTY- For purposes of section 501
 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411) (as
 amended by this Act) the terms `unutilized' and `underutilized' when used
 to describe property have the same meaning such terms had before the date
 of the enactment of this Act under such section 501.
 (d) PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS- No later than 90 days after the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services, the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Housing and
 Urban Development shall promulgate regulations implementing this section
 and the amendment made by this section.
SEC. 402. STUDY OF THE COUNTING OF THE HOMELESS FOR THE NATIONAL CENSUS.
 Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 General Accounting Office shall conduct a study of the methodology and
 procedures used by the Bureau of the Census in counting the number of
 homeless persons for the most recent decennial census conducted pursuant
 to title 13, United States Code, to determine the accuracy of such count,
 and report to the Congress the results of that study.
TITLE V--HEALTH CARE FOR THE HOMELESS
Subtitle A--Categorical Grants for Primary Health Services and Substance
Abuse Services
SEC. 501. WAIVER FOR CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS OF REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS
MEDICAID PROVIDER.
 Section 340(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256(b)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(b) MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF GRANTEES- (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the
 Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) to an applicant unless--
 `(A) the applicant is a public or nonprofit private entity;
 `(B) the applicant has the capacity to effectively administer a grant under
 subsection (a); and
 `(C) in the case of any health service that is covered in the State plan
 approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the State involved--
 `(i) the applicant for the grant will provide the health service directly,
 and the applicant has entered into a participation agreement under the
 State plan and is qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
 `(ii) the applicant for the grant will enter into an agreement with an
 organization under which the organization will provide the health service,
 and the organization has entered into such a participation agreement and
 is qualified to receive such payments.
 `(2)(A) In the case of an organization making an agreement under paragraph
 (1)(C)(ii) regarding the provision of health services under subsection (a),
 the requirement established in such paragraph regarding a participation
 agreement shall be waived by the Secretary if the organization does not,
 in providing health care services, impose a charge or accept reimbursement
 available from any third-party payor, including reimbursement under any
 insurance policy or under any Federal or State health benefits program.
 `(B) A determination by the Secretary of whether an organization referred to
 in subparagraph (A) meets the criteria for a waiver under such subparagraph
 shall be made without regard to whether the organization accepts voluntary
 donations regarding the provision of services to the public.'.
SEC. 502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 340(q)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256(q)(1))
 is amended by striking `$61,200,000' and all that follows and inserting
 the following: `$70,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $80,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1992, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
 1993 and 1994.'.
SEC. 503. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM REGARDING PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES FOR
HOMELESS CHILDREN.
 Section 340 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(s) GRANTS REGARDING OUTREACH AND PRIMARY HEALTH SERVICES FOR HOMELESS
 CHILDREN-
 `(1) The Secretary may make grants to entities specified in paragraph (2)
 for the purpose of enabling the entities, directly or through contracts,
 to carry out demonstration programs--
 `(A) to provide comprehensive primary health services to homeless children
 and to children at imminent risk of homelessness, including such services
 provided through mobile medical units;
 `(B) to provide referrals for the provision of appropriate health services,
 social services, and education services to children receiving services under
 subparagraph (A) (including referrals regarding hospitals, the programs of
 sections 329 and 330, the program of the Head Start Act (and other programs
 providing education services), and programs regarding the prevention and
 treatment of child abuse); and
 `(C) to provide outreach services to identify children who are homeless and to
 inform the parents (or other guardians) of the children of the availability
 of services from the grantees and from the entities or programs specified
 in subparagraph (B).
 `(2) The entities referred to in paragraph (1) are--
 `(A) grantees under subsection (a), and other public and nonprofit private
 entities (other than children's hospitals) that provide primary health
 services, and substance abuse services, to a substantial number of homeless
 individuals; and
 `(B) public and nonprofit private children's hospitals that provide primary
 health services to a substantial number of such individuals.
 `(3)(A) The Secretary may not make a grant under paragraph (1) to a hospital
 unless the hospital agrees, with respect to the costs of providing services
 under such paragraph, to make available (directly or through donations from
 public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in
 an amount that is not less than $1 for each $1 of Federal funds provided
 in the grant.
 `(B) Non-Federal contributions required in subparagraph (A) may be in cash or
 in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts
 provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to
 any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in
 determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(4) The Secretary may not make a grant under paragraph (1) unless the
 applicant for the grant agrees that subsections (b)(3), (h), (i), and
 (j) will apply to the grant to the same extent and in the same manner as
 such subsections apply to any grant under subsection (a). For purposes
 of subsection (i)(1)(D) (including as applied to this subsection by the
 preceding sentence), mobile medical units shall be considered to be major
 medical equipment.
 `(5) The Secretary may not make a grant under paragraph (1) unless the
 applicant for the grant agrees to collect such data as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary for assessing the efficacy of services provided
 under paragraph (1) to homeless children.
 `(6) The Secretary may not make a grant under paragraph (1) unless an
 application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the application
 is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements,
 assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to
 carry out this subsection.
 `(7) In making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into
 account the needs of homeless children in rural areas.
 `(8) For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there is authorized to
 be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1993.'.
Subtitle B--Formula Grants to States for Assistance Regarding Transition
From Homelessness
SEC. 511. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 Part C of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc-21 et
 seq.) is amended to read as follows:
`Part C--Projects for Assistance in Transition From Homelessness
`SEC. 521. FORMULA GRANTS TO STATES.
 `For the purpose of carrying out section 522, the Secretary, acting through
 the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, shall for each of
 the fiscal years 1991 through 1994 make an allotment for each State in an
 amount determined in accordance with section 524. The Secretary shall make
 payments, as grants, each such fiscal year to each State from the allotment
 for the State if the Secretary approves for the fiscal year involved an
 application submitted by the State pursuant to section 529.
`SEC. 522. PURPOSE OF GRANTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the State involved agrees that the payments will be expended solely
 for making grants to political subdivisions of the State, and to nonprofit
 private entities (including community-based veterans organizations and
 other community organizations), for the purpose of providing the services
 specified in subsection (b) to individuals who--
 `(1)(A) are suffering from serious mental illness; or
 `(B) are suffering from serious mental illness and from substance abuse; and
 `(2) are homeless or at imminent risk of becoming homeless.
 `(b) SPECIFICATION OF SERVICES- The services referred to in subsection
 (a) are--
 `(1) outreach services;
 `(2) screening and diagnostic treatment services;
 `(3) habilitation and rehabilitation services;
 `(4) community mental health services;
 `(5) alcohol or drug treatment services;
 `(6) staff training, including the training of individuals who work in
 shelters, mental health clinics, substance abuse programs, and other sites
 where homeless individuals require services;
 `(7) case management services, including--
 `(A) preparing a plan for the provision of community mental health services
 to the eligible homeless individual involved, and reviewing such plan not
 less than once every 3 months;
 `(B) providing assistance in obtaining and coordinating social and maintenance
 services for the eligible homeless individuals, including services relating
 to daily living activities, personal financial planning, transportation
 services, and habilitation and rehabilitation services, prevocational and
 vocational services, and housing services;
 `(C) providing assistance to the eligible homeless individual in obtaining
 income support services, including housing assistance, food stamps, and
 supplemental security income benefits;
 `(D) referring the eligible homeless individual for such other services as
 may be appropriate; and
 `(E) providing representative payee services in accordance with section
 1631(a)(2) of the Social Security Act if the eligible homeless individual is
 receiving aid under title XVI of such act and if the applicant is designated
 by the Secretary to provide such services;
 `(8) supportive and supervisory services in residential settings;
 `(9) referrals for primary health services, job training, educational
 services, and relevant housing services;
 `(10) subject to subsection (h)(1)--
 `(A) minor renovation, expansion, and repair of housing;
 `(B) planning of housing;
 `(C) technical assistance in applying for housing assistance;
 `(D) improving the coordination of housing services;
 `(E) security deposits;
 `(F) the costs associated with matching eligible homeless individuals with
 appropriate housing situations; and
 `(G) 1-time rental payments to prevent eviction; and
 `(11) other appropriate services, as determined by the Secretary.
 `(c) COORDINATION- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the State involved agrees to make grants pursuant to subsection
 (a) only to entities that have the capacity to provide, directly or through
 arrangements, the services specified in section 522(b), including coordinating
 the provision of services in order to meet the needs of eligible homeless
 individuals who are both mentally ill and suffering from substance abuse.
 `(d) SPECIAL CONSIDERATION REGARDING VETERANS- The Secretary may not make
 payments under section 521 unless the State involved agrees that, in making
 grants to entities pursuant to subsection (a), the State will give special
 consideration to entities with a demonstrated effectiveness in serving
 homeless veterans.
 `(e) SPECIAL RULES- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the State involved agrees that grants pursuant to subsection (a)
 will not be made to any entity that--
 `(1) has a policy of excluding individuals from mental health services due
 to the existence or suspicion of substance abuse; or
 `(2) has a policy of excluding individuals from substance abuse services
 due to the existence or suspicion of mental illness.
 `(f) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- The Secretary may not make payments under
 section 521 unless the State involved agrees that not more than 4 percent
 of the payments will be expended for administrative expenses regarding
 the payments.
 `(g) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- The Secretary may not make payments under
 section 521 unless the State involved agrees that the State will maintain
 State expenditures for services specified in subsection (b) at a level that
 is not less than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the
 State for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the State
 is applying to receive such payments.
 `(h) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF FUNDS- The Secretary may not make payments
 under section 521 unless the State involved agrees that--
 `(1) not more than 20 percent of the payments will be expended for housing
 services under subsection (b)(10); and
 `(2) the payments will not be expended--
 `(A) to support emergency shelters or construction of housing facilities;
 `(B) for inpatient psychiatric treatment costs or inpatient substance abuse
 treatment costs; or
 `(C) to make cash payments to intended recipients of mental health or
 substance abuse services.
`SEC. 523. REQUIREMENT OF MATCHING FUNDS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521 unless,
 with respect to the costs of providing services pursuant to section 522,
 the State involved agrees to make available, directly or through donations
 from public or private entities, non-Federal contributions toward such
 costs in an amount that is not less than $1 for each $3 of Federal funds
 provided in such payments.
 `(b) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT- Non-Federal contributions required in subsection
 (a) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment,
 or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted
 or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, shall
 not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(c) LIMITATION REGARDING GRANTS BY STATES- The Secretary may not make
 payments under section 521 unless the State involved agrees that the
 State will not require the entities to which grants are provided pursuant
 to section 522(a) to provide non-Federal contributions in excess of the
 non-Federal contributions described in subsection (a).
`SEC. 524. DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF ALLOTMENT.
 `(a) MINIMUM ALLOTMENT- The allotment for a State under section 521 for a
 fiscal year shall be the greater of--
 `(1) $300,000 for each of the several States, the District of Columbia,
 and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and $50,000 for each of Guam, the
 Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
 Islands; and
 `(2) an amount determined in accordance with subsection (b).
 `(b) DETERMINATION UNDER FORMULA- The amount referred to in subsection
 (a)(2) is the product of--
 `(1) an amount equal to the amount appropriated under section 535(a) for
 the fiscal year; and
 `(2) a percentage equal to the quotient of--
 `(A) an amount equal to the population living in urbanized areas of the State
 involved, as indicated by the most recent data collected by the Bureau of
 the Census; and
 `(B) an amount equal to the population living in urbanized areas of the
 United States, as indicated by the sum of the respective amounts determined
 for the States under subparagraph (A).
`SEC. 525. CONVERSION TO CATEGORICAL PROGRAM IN EVENT OF FAILURE OF STATE
REGARDING EXPENDITURE OF GRANTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary shall, from the
 amounts specified in subsection (b), make grants to public and nonprofit
 private entities for the purpose of providing to eligible homeless individuals
 the services specified in section 522(b).
 `(b) SPECIFICATION OF FUNDS- The amounts referred to in subsection (a)
 are any amounts made available in appropriations Acts for allotments under
 section 521 that are not paid to a State as a result of--
 `(A) the failure of the State to submit an application under section 529;
 `(B) the failure of the State, in the determination of the Secretary, to
 prepare the application in accordance with such section or to submit the
 application within a reasonable period of time; or
 `(C) the State informing the Secretary that the State does not intend to
 expend the full amount of the allotment made to the State.
 `(c) REQUIREMENT OF PROVISION OF SERVICES IN STATE INVOLVED- With respect
 to grants under subsection (a), amounts made available under subsection
 (b) as a result of the State involved shall be available only for grants
 to provide services in such State.
`SEC. 526. PROVISION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION FROM STATE.
 `The Secretary may not make payments under section 521 to a State unless,
 as part of the application required in section 529, the State submits to
 the Secretary a statement--
 `(1) identifying existing programs providing services and housing to
 eligible homeless individuals and identify gaps in the delivery systems of
 such programs;
 `(2) containing a plan for providing services and housing to eligible
 homeless individuals, which plan--
 `(A) describes the coordinated and comprehensive means of providing services
 and housing to homeless individuals; and
 `(B) includes documentation that suitable housing for eligible homeless
 individuals will accompany the provision of services to such individuals;
 `(3) describes the source of the non-Federal contributions described in
 section 523;
 `(4) contains assurances that the non-Federal contributions described in
 section 523 will be available at the beginning of the grant period;
 `(5) describe any voucher system that may be used to carry out this part; and
 `(6) contain such other information or assurances as the Secretary may
 reasonably require.
`SEC. 527. DESCRIPTION OF INTENDED EXPENDITURES OF GRANT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless--
 `(1) as part of the application required in section 529, the State involved
 submits to the Secretary a description of the intended use for the fiscal
 year of the amounts for which the State is applying pursuant to such section;
 `(2) such description identifies the geographic areas within the State in
 which the greatest numbers of homeless individuals with a need for mental
 health, substance abuse, and housing services are located;
 `(3) such description provides information relating to the programs
 and activities to be supported and services to be provided, including
 information relating to coordinating such programs and activities with any
 similar programs and activities of public and private entities; and
 `(4) the State agrees that such description will be revised throughout the
 year as may be necessary to reflect substantial changes in the programs
 and activities assisted by the State pursuant to section 522.
 `(b) OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT- The Secretary may not make payments under
 section 521 unless the State involved agrees that, in developing and carrying
 out the description required in subsection (a), the State will provide
 public notice with respect to the description (including any revisions)
 and such opportunities as may be necessary to provide interested persons,
 such as family members, consumers, and mental health, substance abuse, and
 housing agencies, an opportunity to present comments and recommendations
 with respect to the description.
 `(c) Relationship to State Comprehensive Mental Health Services Plan-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the services to be provided pursuant to the description required in
 subsection (a) are consistent with the State comprehensive mental health
 services plan required in subpart 2 of part B of title XIX.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the services to be provided pursuant to the description required
 in subsection (a) have been considered in the preparation of, have been
 included in, and are consistent with, the State comprehensive mental health
 services plan referred to in paragraph (1).
`SEC. 528. REQUIREMENT OF REPORTS BY STATES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make payments under section 521
 unless the State involved agrees that, by not later than January 31 of each
 fiscal year, the State will prepare and submit to the Secretary a report in
 such form and containing such information as the Secretary determines (after
 consultation with the Comptroller General of the United States, the National
 Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
 Alcoholism, and the National Institute on Drug Abuse) to be necessary for--
 `(1) securing a record and a description of the purposes for which amounts
 received under section 521 were expended during the preceding fiscal year
 and of the recipients of such amounts; and
 `(2) determining whether such amounts were expended in accordance with the
 provisions of this part.
 `(b) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC OF REPORTS- The Secretary may not make payments
 under section 521 unless the State involved agrees to make copies of the
 reports described in subsection (a) available for public inspection.
 `(c) EVALUATIONS BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the
 United States in cooperation with the National Institute of Mental Health,
 shall evaluate at least once every 3 years the expenditures of grants under
 this part by eligible entities in order to ensure that expenditures are
 consistent with the provisions of this part, and shall include in such
 evaluation recommendations regarding changes needed in program design
 or operations.
`SEC. 529. REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION.
 `The Secretary may not make payments under section 521 unless the State
 involved--
 `(1) submits to the Secretary an application for the payments containing
 agreements and information in accordance with this part;
 `(2) the agreements are made through certification from the chief executive
 officer of the State; and
 `(3) the application otherwise is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to carry out this part.
`SEC. 530. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
 `The Secretary, through the National Institute of Mental Health, the
 National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and the National
 Institute on Drug Abuse, shall provide technical assistance to eligible
 entities in developing planning and operating programs in accordance with
 the provisions of this part.
`SEC. 531. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) REPAYMENT OF PAYMENTS-
 `(1) The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), require a State to repay
 any payments received by the State under section 521 that the Secretary
 determines were not expended by the State in accordance with the agreements
 required to be contained in the application submitted by the State pursuant
 to section 529.
 `(2) If a State fails to make a repayment required in paragraph (1), the
 Secretary may offset the amount of the repayment against the amount of any
 payment due to be paid to the State under section 521.
 `(b) WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS-
 `(1) The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), withhold payments due
 under section 521 if the Secretary determines that the State involved is
 not expending amounts received under such section in accordance with the
 agreements required to be contained in the application submitted by the
 State pursuant to section 529.
 `(2) The Secretary shall cease withholding payments from a State under
 paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that there are reasonable assurances
 that the State will expend amounts received under section 521 in accordance
 with the agreements referred to in such paragraph.
 `(3) The Secretary may not withhold funds under paragraph (1) from a State for
 a minor failure to comply with the agreements referred to in such paragraph.
 `(c) OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING- Before requiring repayment of payments under
 subsection (a)(1), or withholding payments under subsection (b)(1), the
 Secretary shall provide to the State an opportunity for a hearing.
 `(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Notwithstanding any other provision of this part,
 a State receiving payments under section 521 may not, with respect to any
 agreements required to be contained in the application submitted under section
 529, be considered to be in violation of any such agreements by reason of
 the fact that the State, in the regular course of providing services under
 section 522(b) to eligible homeless individuals, incidentally provides
 services to homeless individuals who are not eligible homeless individuals.
`SEC. 532. PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN FALSE STATEMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) A person may not knowingly make or cause to be made any false statement
 or representation of a material fact in connection with the furnishing of
 items or services for which amounts may be paid by a State from payments
 received by the State under section 521.
 `(2) A person with knowledge of the occurrence of any event affecting the
 right of the person to receive any amounts from payments made to the State
 under section 521 may not conceal or fail to disclose any such event with
 the intent of securing such an amount that the person is not authorized
 to receive or securing such an amount in an amount greater than the amount
 the person is authorized to receive.
 `(b) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF PROHIBITION- Any person who violates
 a prohibition established in subsection (a) may for each violation be fined
 in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more
 than 5 years, or both.
`SEC. 533. NONDISCRIMINATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING CERTAIN CIVIL RIGHTS LAWS- For the
 purpose of applying the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis
 of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, on the basis of handicap
 under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, on the basis of sex
 under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, or on the basis of race,
 color, or national origin under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
 programs and activities funded in whole or in part with funds made available
 under section 521 shall be considered to be programs and activities receiving
 Federal financial assistance.
 `(2) PROHIBITION- No person shall on the ground of sex or religion be
 excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected
 to discrimination under, any program or activity funded in whole or in part
 with funds made available under section 521.
 `(b) ENFORCEMENT-
 `(1) REFERRALS TO ATTORNEY GENERAL AFTER NOTICE- Whenever the Secretary
 finds that a State, or an entity that has received a payment pursuant to
 section 521, has failed to comply with a provision of law referred to in
 subsection (a)(1), with subsection (a)(2), or with an applicable regulation
 (including one prescribed to carry out subsection (a)(2)), the Secretary
 shall notify the chief executive officer of the State and shall request
 the chief executive officer to secure compliance. If within a reasonable
 period of time, not to exceed 60 days, the chief executive officer fails
 or refuses to secure compliance, the Secretary may--
 `(A) refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation that
 an appropriate civil action be instituted;
 `(B) exercise the powers and functions provided by the Age Discrimination
 Act of 1975, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, title IX of the
 Education Amendments of 1972, or title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
 as may be applicable; or
 `(C) take such other actions as may be authorized by law.
 `(2) AUTHORITY OF ATTORNEY GENERAL- When a matter is referred to the Attorney
 General pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), or whenever the Attorney General
 has reason to believe that a State or an entity is engaged in a pattern
 or practice in violation of a provision of law referred to in subsection
 (a)(1) or in violation of subsection (a)(2), the Attorney General may bring
 a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States for
 such relief as may be appropriate, including injunctive relief.
`SEC. 534. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this part:
 `(1) ELIGIBLE HOMELESS INDIVIDUAL- The term `eligible homeless individual'
 means an individual described in section 522(a).
 `(2) HOMELESS INDIVIDUAL- The term `homeless individual' has the meaning
 given such term in section 340(r).
 `(3) STATE- The term `State' means each of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
 American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
 `(4) SUBSTANCE ABUSE- The term `substance abuse' means the abuse of alcohol
 or other drugs.
`SEC. 535. FUNDING.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 part, there is authorized to be appropriated $75,000,000 for each of the
 fiscal years 1991 through 1994.
 `(b) EFFECT OF INSUFFICIENT APPROPRIATIONS FOR MINIMUM ALLOTMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- If the amounts made available under subsection (a) for a
 fiscal year are insufficient for providing each State with an allotment under
 section 521 of not less than the applicable amount under section 524(a)(1),
 the Secretary shall, from such amounts as are made available under such
 subsection, make grants to the States for providing to eligible homeless
 individuals the services specified in section 522(b).
 `(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Paragraph (1) may not be construed to require
 the Secretary to make a grant under such paragraph to each State.'.
Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations for Community Demonstration
Projects
SEC. 521. MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS WITH CHRONIC
MENTAL ILLNESS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The first sentence of section 612(a) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-3 note) is amended by
 striking `$11,000,000' and all that follows through `1991,' and inserting
 the following: `such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
 1991 through 1993,'.
 (b) TECHNICAL CORRECTION- Section 612(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-3 note) is amended by striking `section
 504(f)' and inserting `section 520 of the Public Health Service Act'.
SEC. 522. ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE TREATMENT OF HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS.
 Section 513(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-2(b)) is
 amended by striking `$14,000,000' and all that follows and inserting the
 following: `such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1991
 through 1993.'.
TITLE VI--EDUCATION, TRAINING, COMMUNITY SERVICE, AND FAMILY SUPPORT
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Amendments Act of 1990'.
SEC. 602. DEFINITION OF HOMELESS.
 Section 103(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11302(b)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) INCOME ELIGIBILITY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A homeless individual shall be eligible for assistance
 under any program provided by this Act, only if the individual complies
 with the income eligibility requirements otherwise applicable to such program.
 `(2) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a homeless individual shall
 be eligible for assistance under the Job Training Partnership Act.'.
Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Literacy and Education
SEC. 611. STATEWIDE LITERACY INITIATIVE.
 (a) REAUTHORIZATION- Section 702(c)(1) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11421(c)(1)) is amended by inserting after `and
 1990' the following: `, $13,700,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as
 may be necessary in each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993,'.
 (b) APPLICATION- Section 702(b) of such Act is amended by striking out
 `and the number' and all that follows through `to be served'.
SEC. 612. EDUCATION FOR HOMELESS CHILDREN AND YOUTH.
 (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- Section 721 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
 Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11431) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (2)--
 (A) by inserting after `attendance laws' the following: `or other laws,
 regulations, practices, or policies that may act as a barrier to the
 enrollment, attendance, or success in school of homeless children and
 homeless youth';
 (B) by inserting `, regulations, practices, or policies' after `such
 laws'; and
 (C) by striking the period at the end and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(3) homelessness alone should not be sufficient reason to separate students
 from the mainstream school environment.'.
 (b) GRANTS FOR STATE AND LOCAL ACTIVITIES- Section 722 of such Act (42
 U.S.C. 11432) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading by inserting `AND LOCAL' after `STATE';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking out `section 1005' and inserting in lieu thereof `part A
 of chapter 1 of title I'; and
 (B) by striking out $50,000 and all that follows through the end thereof and
 inserting the following `$50,000. The Secretary shall reserve 0.1 percent of
 the amount appropriated for each fiscal year to be allocated by the Secretary
 among the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
 Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (until the Compact of Free Association
 with Palau takes effect pursuant to section 101(a) of Public Law 90-658),
 according to their respective need, as determined by the Secretary, except
 that no such territory shall receive less in fiscal year 1991 than it
 received in fiscal year 1990. The Secretary may also reserve not to exceed
 1 percent of the amount appropriated for each fiscal year for programs for
 Indian students served by schools funded by the Secretary of the Interior,
 as determined under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance
 Act consistent with the purposes of this Act. As used in this subsection,
 the term `State' shall not include the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or Palau.';
 (3) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively;
 (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) to provide activities for and services to homeless children and
 homeless youths that enable such children and youths to enroll in, attend,
 and achieve success in school;';
 (C) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (3) (as so redesignated);
 (D) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (4) (as so
 redesignated) and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (E) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(5) to develop and implement programs for school personnel to heighten
 awareness of specific problems of the education of homeless children and
 youth; and
 `(6) if amounts appropriated for the applicable fiscal year exceed the
 amount appropriated for fiscal year 1990 under this section, to provide
 grants to local educational agencies for purposes of this section, and if
 such amounts appropriated do not exceed the amount appropriated for fiscal
 year 1991, the State education agency, at the discretion of such agency,
 may provide such grants.';
 (4) in subsection (d)(1)--
 (A) by striking `annually' and inserting `once every 2 years,';
 (B) by inserting after `shall include' the following: `the number of homeless
 children and homeless youths enrolled in schools in the State, determined
 through random sampling or other statistical methods that ensure that such
 children and youths are not overtly identified as being homeless,';
 (C) by striking `and the difficulties' and inserting `the difficulties'; and
 (D) by inserting before the semicolon the following: `, and any progress
 made by the State educational agency and local educational agencies within
 the State in addressing such problems and difficulties';
 (5) in subsection (d)(2) by striking `and' at the end thereof;
 (6) in subsection (d)(3)--
 (A) by striking `of each year' and inserting `, 1991, and on December 31
 of every second year thereafter'; and
 (B) by striking the period at the end thereof and inserting a semicolon; and
 (7) in subsection (d), by adding at the end thereof the following new
 paragraphs:
 `(4) facilitate coordination between the State education agency, the State
 social services agency, and other agencies providing services to homeless
 children and youth and their families; and
 `(5) develop relationships and coordinate with other relevant education,
 child development, or preschool programs and providers of services to
 homeless children, homeless families, and runaway and homeless youths
 (including domestic violence agencies, shelter operators, transitional
 housing facilities, runaway and homeless youth centers, and transitional
 living programs for homeless youths) in order to improve the provision of
 comprehensive services to homeless children and homeless youths and the
 families of such children and youths.';
 (8) in subsection (e)(1)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (B)(i) by inserting `prompt' before `resolution' in subparagraph (B); and
 (ii) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
 a semicolon; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) develop programs for school personnel (including principals, attendance
 officers, teachers, and enrollment personnel), to heighten the awareness
 of such personnel of the specific educational needs of runaway and homeless
 youths; and
 `(D) ensure that homeless children and homeless youths who meet the relevant
 eligibility criteria are able to participate in Federal, State, or local
 food programs.';
 `(E) ensure that homeless children and homeless youths who meet the relevant
 eligibility criteria are able to participate in Federal, State, or local
 before- and after-school care programs and provide for the disclosure of
 data concerning the participation of such children in such programs in
 plans submitted by the State after the initial plan of the State;
 `(F) address problems set forth in the report provided to the Secretary
 under subsection (d)(3);
 `(G) address problems with respect to the education of homeless children
 and homeless youths, including problems caused by--
 `(i) transportation issues; and
 `(ii) enrollment delays which are caused by--
 `(I) immunization requirements;
 `(II) residency requirements;
 `(III) lack of birth certificates, school records, or other documentation; or
 `(IV) guardianship issues;
 `(H) demonstrate that the State and local educational agencies in the State
 have developed and will review and revise policies to remove barriers to
 the enrollment and retention of homeless children and homeless youths in
 schools of the State; and
 `(I) ensure that the State educational agency and local educational agencies
 within the State will adopt policies and practices to ensure that homeless
 children and homeless youths are not isolated or stigmatized.';
 (9) in subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking out `(6)' in paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof
 `(9)';
 (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
 `(3)(A) The local educational agency of each homeless child and each homeless
 youth shall either--
 `(i) continue the child's or youth's education in the school of origin--
 `(I) for the remainder of the academic year; or
 `(II) in any case in which a family becomes homeless between academic years,
 for the following academic year; or
 `(ii) enroll the child or youth in any school that nonhomeless students who
 live in the attendance area in which the child or youth is actually living
 are eligible to attend;
whichever is in the child's best interest or the youth's best interest.
 `(B) In determining the best interests of the child or youth for purposes
 of making a school assignment under subparagraph (A), consideration shall
 be given to a request made by a parent regarding school selection.
 `(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `school of origin' shall
 mean the school that the child or youth attended when permanently housed,
 or the school in which the child or youth was last enrolled.';
 (C) by inserting after `including' in paragraph (5) the following:
 `transportation services,';
 (D) by striking `The schools records' in paragraph (6) and inserting the
 following: `Any record ordinarily kept by the school, including immunization
 records, academic records, birth certificates, guardianship records, and
 evaluations for special services or programs,'; and
 (E) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(7) Each local educational agency serving homeless children or youth that
 receives assistance under this title  shall coordinate with local social
 services agencies, and other agencies or programs providing services to
 such children or youth and their families.
 `(8) Each local educational agency that receives assistance under this
 title shall designate a homelessness liaison to ensure that--
 `(A) homeless children and youth enroll and succeed in the schools of that
 agency; and
 `(B) homeless families, children and youth receive educational services
 for which they are eligible, and referrals to health care services, dental
 services, mental health services, and other appropriate services.
State coordinators and local educational agency liaisons shall inform school
personnel, service providers and advocates working with homeless families
of the duties of the liaisons.
 `(9) Each State and local educational agency shall review and revise any
 policies that may act as barriers to the enrollment of homeless children and
 youth in schools selected in accordance with paragraph (3). In reviewing and
 revising such policies, consideration shall be given to issues concerning
 transportation, requirements of immunization, residency, birth certificates,
 school records, or other documentation, and guardianship. Special attention
 shall be given to ensuring the enrollment and attendance of homeless children
 and youths who are not currently attending school.'; and
 (10) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by striking out `$5,000,000' in paragraph (1) and all that follows
 through the end thereof and inserting in lieu thereof `$50,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993.';
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) The State educational agency may reserve not to exceed 5 percent of
 the amount received by such agency under this section in each fiscal year,
 or an amount equal to the amount received by such State agency for State
 activities under this section in fiscal year 1990, whichever is greater,
 to conduct activities under paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c).
 `(3)(A) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated under paragraph
 (1) does not equal or exceed $100,000,000, the State educational agency
 shall use funds not otherwise reserved under paragraph (2) to award grants
 to local educational agencies in accordance with subsection (c)(6).
 `(B) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated under paragraph
 (1) equals or exceeds $100,000,000, the State educational agency shall
 use funds not otherwise reserved under paragraph (2) to allocate to each
 local educational agency an amount that bears the same ratio to amount not
 otherwise reserved as the aggregate amount received by such local educational
 agency under part A of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965 for such fiscal year bears to the aggregate amount
 received by all local educational agencies in the State for purposes of
 carrying out such part for such fiscal year.'.
 (c) GRANTS FOR THE EDUCATIONAL SUCCESS OF HOMELESS CHILDREN AND YOUTH-
 Section 723 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11433) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 723. LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY GRANTS FOR THE EDUCATION OF HOMELESS
CHILDREN AND YOUTH.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY-
 `(1) GRANTEES AND PURPOSE OF GRANTS- The State educational agency shall,
 in accordance with section 722(c)(6) and from amounts made available to
 such agency under section 722, make grants to local educational agencies
 for the purpose of facilitating the enrollment, attendance and success of
 homeless children and youths in schools.
 `(2) USE OF GRANTS- Unless otherwise specified, services under paragraph (1)
 may be provided through programs on school grounds or at other nonsectarian
 facilities. Where services are provided through programs on school grounds,
 such services may also be made available to children or youths who are
 determined by the local educational agency to be at risk of failing in
 or dropping out of schools, except that priority for such services shall
 be given to homeless children and homeless youths. To the maximum extent
 practicable, services shall be provided through existing programs and
 mechanisms that integrate homeless individuals with nonhomeless individuals.
 `(3) REGULAR ACADEMIC PROGRAM- Services provided under this section are
 not intended to replace the regular academic program.
 `(b) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) PRIMARY ACTIVITIES- Not less than 50 percent of amounts provided under a
 grant under this section shall be used to provide tutoring, remedial education
 services, or other education services to homeless children or homeless youths.
 `(2) RELATED ACTIVITIES- Not less than 35, nor more than 50, percent of the
 amounts provided under a grant under this section may be used for activities
 that may include--
 `(A) the provision of expedited evaluations of the strengths and needs
 of homeless children and homeless youths, including needs and eligibility
 for programs and services (including gifted and talented programs, special
 education programs, programs for students with limited English proficiency,
 and remedial services);
 `(B) professional development for educators and other school personnel that
 is designed to develop awareness and sensitivity to the needs of homeless
 children and homeless youths and the rights of such children and youths
 under this Act;
 `(C) the provision of referral services to homeless children and homeless
 youths for medical, dental, mental, and other health services;
 `(D) the provision of assistance to defray the excess cost of transportation
 for students not provided under section 722(e)(5) and not otherwise provided
 through Federal, State, or local funding, where necessary to enable students
 to attend the school selected under section 722(e)(3);
 `(E) the provision of developmentally appropriate early childhood programs
 for preschool age children;
 `(F) the provision of before- and after-school and summer programs for
 homeless children or homeless youths in which a teacher or other qualified
 individual provides tutoring, homework assistance, and supervision of
 educational activities;
 `(G) where necessary, the payment of fees and other costs associated
 with tracking, obtaining, and transferring records necessary to enroll
 homeless children or homeless youths in school, including birth certificates,
 immunization records, academic records, guardianship records, and evaluations
 for special programs or services;
 `(H) the provision of parent education and training to the parents of
 homeless children and homeless youths about the rights of and resources
 available to such children and youths;
 `(I) the development of coordination between schools and agencies providing
 services to homeless children and homeless youths;
 `(J) the provision of counseling, social work and psychological services,
 including violence counseling, and referrals for such services;
 `(K) activities to address the particular needs of homeless children and
 homeless youths that may arise from domestic violence;
 `(L) activities to develop and implement programs for school personnel to
 heighten the awareness of such personnel of the specific educational needs
 of runaway and homeless youths;
 `(M) the adaptation of space and the purchase of supplies for nonschool
 facilities made available under subsection (a)(2) to provide services under
 this subsection;
 `(N) the provision of school supplies to be distributed at the shelter or
 temporary housing facilities; and
 `(O) the provision of such other extraordinary or emergency assistance
 determined by the Secretary as essential to enable homeless children and
 youth to attend school.
 `(3) ELIGIBILITY- No State or local educational agency may receive a grant
 under this section unless the State in which the agency is located has
 submitted a State plan as required by section 722(e).
 `(c) AWARDS-
 `(1) BASIS- Except as provided in section 722(g)(3)(B), from amounts
 appropriated for each fiscal year under section 722(g), the State educational
 agency may award grants under this section to local educational agencies
 submitting an application under subsection (d) on the basis of the need of
 such agencies.
 `(2) DETERMINATION- In determining need under paragraph (1), the State
 educational agency may consider the number of homeless children and homeless
 youth enrolled in preschool, elementary, and secondary schools within the
 area served by the agency, and shall consider the needs of such children
 and youth, and the ability of the agency to meet such needs. Such agency
 may also consider--
 `(A) the extent to which the proposed use of funds would facilitate the
 enrollment, retention, and educational success of homeless children and youth;
 `(B) the extent to which the application reflects coordination with other
 local and State agencies that serve homeless children and youth, as well
 as the State Plan required by section 722(e);
 `(C) the extent to which the applicant exhibits in the application and in
 current practice a commitment to education for all homeless children and
 youth in its jurisdiction; and
 `(D) other criteria as the agency determines appropriate.
 `(d) APPLICATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A local educational agency that desires to receive a grant
 under this section shall submit an application to the State educational
 agency at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by
 such information as the State agency may reasonably require according to
 guidelines issued by the Secretary. Each such application shall include--
 `(A) a description of the services and programs for which assistance is
 sought and the problems sought to be addressed through the provision of
 such services and programs;
 `(B) assurances that the applicant complies with or will use requested funds
 to come into compliance with paragraphs (3) through (9) of section 722(e);
 `(C) an assurance that assistance under the grant will supplement and not
 supplant funds used before the award of the grant for purposes of providing
 services to homeless children and homeless youths; and
 `(D) a description of policies and procedures that the agency will implement
 to ensure that activities carried out by the agency will not isolate or
 stigmatize homeless children and homeless youth.
 `(3) TERM OF AWARDS- Grants awarded under this section shall be for terms
 of not to exceed 2 years.
 `(e) REPORTS- Each State educational agency that receives a grant under
 this section for any fiscal year shall, as part of the plan of the State
 submitted under section 722(c)(4), provide to Secretary data concerning--
 `(1) the number of homeless children and homeless youths served with
 assistance provided under the grant under this section; and
 `(2) a description of the success of the program under this section in
 allowing homeless children and homeless youths to enroll in, attend, and
 succeed in school.'.
 (d) NATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES- Section 724(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11434)
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by adding at the end thereof the following new sentences:
 `In reviewing the State plans submitted by the State educational agencies
 under section 722(e), the Secretary shall evaluate whether State laws,
 policies, and practices described in such plans adequately address the
 problems of homeless children and homeless youth relating to access to
 education and placement as described in such plans.';
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (4) and (5),
 respectively;
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraphs:
 `(2)(A) The Secretary, in consultation with persons and organizations that
 are knowledgeable about the needs of homeless children and youth, shall,
 through the awarding of a grant, or through entering into a contract or
 cooperative agreement, conduct a study to determine the best means of
 identifying, locating, and counting homeless children and youth for the
 purposes of this subtitle. Such persons and organizations to be consulted
 shall include representatives of State coordinators, local educational
 agencies with substantial numbers of homeless children and youth, local
 government agencies with responsibility for administering homeless shelters,
 and advocacy groups representing the interests of homeless children and
 youth. The Secretary shall also consult with the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
 as appropriate, in carrying out this paragraph.
 `(B) The study conducted under subparagraph (A) shall consider--
 `(i) the appropriate definition of the terms `homeless child' and `homeless
 youth';
 `(ii) the experience of the 1990 Census in identifying, locating, and
 counting homeless children and youth;
 `(iii) appropriate methodologies for identifying, locating, and counting
 such children and youth, including using schools, shelters, and other social
 service agencies to collect data; and
 `(iv) the projected accuracy of the methodologies identified in clause
 (iii), and the costs associated with the use of each methodology;
to determine the number of homeless children and youth in the United States
to create as accurate an account as possible of the number, location, and
living circumstances of such children and youth, including the number of
such children and youth that are attending school regularly, part-time,
or not at all, and reasons for the nonattendance of such children and youth.
 `(C)(i) Not later than 240 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph,
 the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the appropriate committees of
 Congress, a report containing the results of the study conducted under
 subparagraph (A) and the estimated costs of making the estimates required
 under clause (ii).
 `(ii) Not later than December 1, 1992, the Secretary, in consultation with
 the appropriate committees of Congress, and through the use of appropriate
 statistical methodology, shall, through a grant, contract or cooperative
 agreement, determine accurate estimates of the number of homeless children
 and youth throughout the Nation and the number of such children and youth
 attending school.
 `(D) The Secretary may reserve not more than $250,000 from amounts
 appropriated under section 722(g) in 1991 to carry out the study required
 under subparagraph (A).
 `(E) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 in 1992 to prepare the report and estimates required under subparagraph (C).
 `(3) The Secretary shall provide such support and technical assistance to
 the State educational agencies as is required by such agencies to carry
 out their responsibilities under this subtitle,'; and
 (4) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(5) The Secretary shall conduct evaluation and dissemination activities
 of programs designed to meet the educational needs of homeless elementary
 and secondary school students.
 `(6) The Secretary shall require applications for grants under this subtitle
 to be submitted to the Secretary not later than the expiration of the 60-day
 period beginning on the date that funds are available for purposes of making
 such grants and shall make such grants not later than the expiration of
 the 120-day period beginning on such date.
 `(7) The Secretary, based on the information received from the States and
 information gathered by the Secretary under paragraph (1), shall determine the
 extent to which State educational agencies are ensuring that each homeless
 child and homeless youth has access to a free appropriate public education
 as described in section 721(1).'.
SEC. 613. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 Subtitle B of title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act
 (42 U.S.C. 11431 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 725 as section 726; and
 (2) by inserting after section 724 the following new section:
`SEC. 725. REPORTS.
 `Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, the
 Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the Secretary,
 shall prepare and submit to the appropriate Committees of Congress a report
 containing the findings of a study conducted to determine the most effective
 method of distributing funds provided under this subtitle to State educational
 agencies and local educational agencies.'.
Subtitle B--Job Training for the Homeless
SEC. 621. REAUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS WITHIN THE STEWART B. MCKINNEY
HOMELESS ASSISTANCE ACT.
 (a) JOB TRAINING FOR THE HOMELESS-
 (1) APPLICATIONS- Section 733 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11443) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- ' before `Each applicant';
 (B) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `or other related programs providing services necessary to address the
 multiple needs of homeless individuals';
 (C) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting `on the street or' before `in-shelter';
 and
 (D) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(b) SPECIAL CONSIDERATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In awarding grants under this subtitle, the Secretary
 of Labor may give special consideration to applicants that will implement
 projects that will serve areas of greatest need, including urban and rural
 areas, as demonstrated by--
 `(A) the large number or concentration of homeless individuals in the
 project area relative to other similar areas of jurisdiction;
 `(B) the high rates of poverty in the project area as determined by the
 census; or
 `(C) the lack of available low cost or affordable housing within the
 project area, as measured by such indicators as high average local rents
 or vacancy rates.
 `(2) HOLISTIC SERVICE APPROACH- In awarding grants under this subtitle,
 the Secretary of Labor may give special consideration to applicants that
 will implement programs that include formal reciprocal referral agreements
 with other programs such as substance abuse counseling, local shelters,
 and subsidized housing that provide a holistic service approach on an
 individual case management basis.'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 739(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11449(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this subtitle the following amounts:
 `(1) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, of which $2,200,000 shall be available
 only to carry out section 738.
 `(2) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, of which $2,200,000 shall be available
 only to carry out section 738.
 `(3) $17,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, of which $2,200,000 shall be available
 only to carry out section 738.'.
 (c) TERMINATION- Section 741 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11450) is amended by
 striking out `October 1, 1990' and inserting in lieu thereof `October 1,
 1993'.
SEC. 622. JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP ACT.
 Part B of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1691 et
 seq.) is amended by inserting after section 433 the following new section:
`JOB CORPS CENTERS FOR HOMELESS FAMILIES
 `SEC. 433A. (a) Subject to the availability of appropriations therefor,
 the Secretary is authorized, in accordance with section 427, to provide
 services and facilities in accordance with this section to eligible homeless
 individuals and their families at Job Corps centers. Job Corps centers
 serving homeless individuals and their families shall--
 `(1) be residential;
 `(2) be operated under a project agreement with one or more State or local
 agencies that complies with subsection (b) of this section;
 `(3) provide room and board for enrollees and their dependents and child
 care to the extent practicable for dependent children of enrollees; and
 `(4) provide enrollees--
 `(A) program activities that include both activities to sustain the operation
 of the center and regular Job Corps activities required under section 428; and
 `(B) the benefits and services given to any other enrollee under this part.
 `(b) Each Job Corps center providing services and facilities to homeless
 individuals under this section shall provide such services and facilities
 under a project agreement with one or more State or local agencies that--
 `(1) requires such State and local agencies to provide, in the aggregate,
 not less than 50 percent of the cost of such services and facilities;
 `(2) contains provisions to ensure that enrollees and their families are
 effectively assisted in obtaining all necessary health, education, and
 social services provided by existing Federal, State, and local programs in
 such State or locality;
 `(3) require such State and local agencies to provide such transitional
 assistance, including housing, necessary to effect successful job placements
 for enrollees; and
 `(4) contains or is accompanied by such other information and assurances
 as the Secretary may require.
 `(c) To become an enrollee in the Job Corps at a center established
 providing services and facilities to homeless individuals under this section,
 an individual--
 `(1) shall qualify as a homeless individual under section 103 of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act;
 `(2) may be over the maximum age permitted by section 423(1), but shall
 have not attained the age of 25 at the time of enrollment; and
 `(3) shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (2) through (5) of section 423.
 `(d) The Secretary shall prescribe special screening standards under sections
 424 and 425 to identify and select enrollees for purposes of this section.
 `(e) The Secretary shall, pursuant to section 454, conduct evaluations of
 the centers providing services and facilities to homeless individuals under
 this section. The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the
 results of such evaluations, together with the Secretary's recommendations
 concerning such centers, not later than 3 years after the date of enactment
 of this section.
 `(f) As used in the section, the term `family' may include, at a minimum,
 dependent children, and the brothers, sisters and parents of those dependent
 children.'.
Subtitle C--Emergency Community Services Homeless Grant Program
SEC. 631. EMERGENCY COMMUNITY SERVICES HOMELESS GRANT PROGRAM.
 (a) USE OF FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS- Section 753(b) of the Stewart
 B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11463(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A)--
 (i) by striking `all' and inserting `not less than 95 percent'; and
 (ii) by striking `(1)(A)' and inserting `(1)';
 (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
 (C) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iii) as subparagraphs (A) through
 (C), respectively; and
 (2) in paragraph (3) by striking `no amount' and inserting `not more than
 5 percent of the amounts'.
 (b) ELIGIBLE USE OF FUNDS- Section 753(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11463(c))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by inserting `(A)' after `(1)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) Renovation of buildings to be used to provide such services, except that
 not more than 50 percent of such amounts may be used for such purpose.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) Provision of, or referral to, violence counseling for homeless children
 and individuals, and the provision of violence counseling training to
 individuals who work with homeless children and individuals.'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 754 of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11404) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 751. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle
 $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993.'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) of
 this section shall take effect on the first day of the first fiscal year
 beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D--Evaluation and Reports
SEC. 641. EVALUATION AND REPORTS.
 Subtitle D of title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 11461 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new sections:
`SEC. 755. EVALUATION.
 `(a) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this section to develop as rapidly as
 practicable, information concerning the organization, impact and effectiveness
 of services provided to homeless individuals under programs administered
 by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under this or any other Act,
 and of the effectiveness of the coordination of such programs with other
 Federal or Federally assisted programs that provide services to homeless
 individuals, or to those at risk of becoming homeless.
 `(b) REQUIREMENT FOR EVALUATION ACTIVITIES- In carrying out the purpose
 described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall conduct evaluations that
 shall include--
 `(1) the use of cost and utilization data collected under the Primary Health
 Care for the Homeless Program under section 340 of the Public Health Service
 Act to conduct an evaluation, in consultation with organizations receiving
 grants under this title and with the national representatives of such
 organizations, of the impact of health, case management and referral services
 provided by a representative sample of grantees concerning client outcome;
 `(2) under part C of title V, an evaluation of the need for and availability
 of services for individuals who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless
 that have a serious mental illness or substance abuse problem, with special
 attention paid to the service needs of the dually diagnosed;
 `(3) an evaluation to identify and document replicable, community-wide
 programs that provide integrated, comprehensive services that result in
 service delivery models which prevent homelessness or lead to the successful
 relocation of the homeless into permanent housing; and
 `(4) an identification through the evaluation conducted under this subsection
 of those areas where services are lacking.
`SEC. 756. REPORT BY THE SECRETARY.
 `Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this section,
 the General Accounting Office shall conduct a study--
 `(1) of the extent to which Federal laws, regulations, or policies are
 hindering Federal facilities (such as cafeterias in the facilities of the
 Department of Defense and Department of Veterans' Affairs) from making
 available to programs or entities serving the homeless prepared food that
 is not consumed, and the issues of liability relating to the provision of
 such food; and
 `(2) prepare and submit, to the appropriate Committees of Congress, a
 report containing the findings made as a result of the study conducted
 under paragraph (1).'.
Subtitle E--Homeless Prevention Demonstration Programs
SEC. 651. FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS.
 Title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law
 100-77) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subtitle:
`Subtitle F--Family Support Centers
`SEC. 771. DEFINITIONS.
 `As used in this subtitle:
 `(1) ADVISORY COUNCIL- The term `advisory council' means the advisory
 council established under section 772(e)(2)(K).
 `(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY- The term `eligible entity' means State or local
 agencies, a Head Start agency, any community-based organization of
 demonstrated effectiveness as a community action agency under section 210
 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 2790), public housing
 agencies as defined in section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of
 1937, State Housing Finance Agencies, local education agencies, an institution
 of higher education, a public hospital, a community development corporation,
 a private industry council as defined under section 102(a) of the Job Training
 Partnership Act, a community health center, and any other public or private
 nonprofit agency or organization specializing in delivering social services.
 `(3) FAMILY CASE MANAGERS- The term `family case managers' means advisers
 operating under the provisions of section 774.
 `(4) GOVERNMENTALLY SUBSIDIZED HOUSING- The term `governmentally subsidized
 housing' means any rental housing that is assisted under any Federal, State
 or local program (including a tax credit or tax exempt financing program)
 and that serves a population that predominately consists of very low income
 families or individuals.
 `(5) HOMELESS- The term `homeless' has the same meaning given such term
 in the subsections (a) and (c) of section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302 (a) and (c)).
 `(6) INTENSIVE AND COMPREHENSIVE SUPPORTIVE SERVICES- The term `intensive
 and comprehensive supportive services' means--
 `(A) in the case of services provided to infants, children and youth,
 such services that shall be designed to enhance the physical, social,
 and educational development of such infants and children and that shall
 include, where appropriate nutritional services, screening and referral
 services, child care services, early childhood development programs, early
 intervention services for children with, or at-risk of developmental delays,
 drop-out prevention services, after-school activities, job readiness and job
 training services, education (including basic skills and literacy services),
 emergency services including special outreach services targeted to homeless
 and runaway youth, crisis intervention and counseling services, and such
 other services that the Secretary may deem necessary and appropriate;
 `(B) in the case of services provided to parents and other family members,
 services designed to better enable parents and other family members to
 contribute to their child's healthy development and that shall include,
 where appropriate, substance abuse education, counseling, referral for
 treatment, crisis intervention, employment counseling and training as
 appropriate, life-skills training including personal financial counseling,
 education including basic skills and literacy services, parenting classes,
 training in consumer homemaking, and such other services as the Secretary
 shall deem necessary and appropriate;
 `(C) in the case of services provided by family case managers, needs
 assessment and support in accessing and maintaining appropriate public
 assistance and social services, referral for substance abuse counseling and
 treatment, counseling and crisis intervention, family advocacy services,
 and housing assistance activities, housing counseling and eviction or
 foreclosure prevention assistance and referral to sources of emergency
 rental or mortgage assistance payments and home energy assistance, and
 other services as appropriate.
 `(7) LOW INCOME- The term `low income' when applied to families or individuals
 means a family or individual income that does not exceed 80 percent of the
 median income for an individual or family in the area, as determined by the
 Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, except that such Secretary may
 establish income ceilings that are higher or lower than 80 percent of the
 median for the area on the basis of a finding by such Secretary that such
 variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs
 or unusually high or low individual or family incomes.
 `(8) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services.
 `(9) VERY LOW INCOME- The term `very low income' when applied to families
 or individuals means a family or individual income that does not exceed
 50 percent of the median income for an individual or family in the area,
 as determined by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may establish
 income ceilings that are higher or lower than 50 percent of the median for
 the area on the basis of a finding by the Secretary that such variations
 are necessary because of unusually high or low individual or family incomes.
`SEC. 772. GENERAL GRANTS FOR THE PROVISION OF SERVICES.
 `(a) AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized to make not more than 30 grants
 to eligible entities in rural, urban and suburban areas to pay the cost of
 demonstration programs designed to encourage the provision of intensive and
 comprehensive supportive services that will enhance the physical, social, and
 educational development of low-income individuals and families, especially
 those individuals in very low-income families who were previously homeless
 and who are currently residing in governmentally subsidized housing or who
 are at risk of becoming homeless. Such grants shall be of sufficient size,
 scope, and quality to be effective, and shall be distributed to various
 entities including those in or near public housing developments, and in
 low income areas both urban and nonurban.
 `(b) GATEWAY PROGRAMS- The Secretary shall make available not more than 5
 demonstration grants in each fiscal year for Gateway programs in accordance
 with section 775.
 `(c) AGREEMENTS WITH ELIGIBLE ENTITIES- The Secretary shall enter into
 contracts, agreements, or other arrangements with eligible entities to
 carry out the provisions of this section.
 `(d) CONSIDERATIONS BY SECRETARY- In carrying out the provisions of this
 section, the Secretary shall consider--
 `(1) the capacity of the eligible entity to administer the comprehensive
 program for which assistance is sought;
 `(2) the proximity of the entities and facilities associated with the program
 to the low-income families to be served by the program or the ability of
 the entity to provide mobile or offsite services;
 `(3) the ability of the eligible entity to coordinate and integrate its
 activities with State and local public agencies (such as agencies responsible
 for education, employment and training, health and mental health services,
 substance abuse services, social services, child care, nutrition, income
 assistance, housing and energy assistance, and other relevant services),
 with public or private non-profit agencies and organizations that have a
 demonstrated record of effectiveness in providing assistance to homeless
 families, and with appropriate nonprofit private organizations involved in
 the delivery of eligible support services;
 `(4) fiscal and administrative management of the eligible entity;
 `(5) the involvement of project participants and community representatives
 in the planning and operation of the program to the extent practicable; and
 `(6) the availability and proximity of comparable services provided
 by Community Action Agencies unless the Community Action Agency is the
 applicant and intends to expand existing services.
 `(e) Requirements-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each eligible entity desiring to receive a grant under
 this section shall--
 `(A) have demonstrated effectiveness in providing or arranging for the
 provision of services such as those required under this section;
 `(B) to the maximum extent practicable, expand, coordinate, integrate, or
 contract with existing service providers, and avail itself of other resource
 and reimbursement mechanisms that may be used to provide services; and
 `(C) submit an application at such time in such manner and containing or
 accompanied by such information, including the information required under
 paragraph (2), as the Secretary shall reasonably require.
 `(2) APPLICATION- Each application submitted under paragraph (1)(C) shall--
 `(A) identify the population and geographic location to be served by the
 program;
 `(B) provide assurances that services are closely related to the identifiable
 needs of the target population;
 `(C) provide assurances that each program will provide directly or arrange
 for the provision of intensive and comprehensive supportive services;
 `(D) identify the referral providers, agencies, and organizations that the
 program will use;
 `(E) describe the method of furnishing services at offsite locations,
 if appropriate;
 `(F) describe the manner in which the services offered will be accessed
 through existing program providers to the extent that they are located in
 the immediate vicinity of the target population, or will contract with such
 providers for community-based services within the community to be served,
 and that funds provided under this section will be utilized to create new
 services only to the extent that no other funds can be obtained to fulfill
 the purpose.
 `(G) describe how the program will relate to the State and local agencies
 providing assistance to homeless families, or providing health, nutritional,
 job training, education, housing and energy assistance, and income maintenance
 services;
 `(H) describe the collection and provision of data on groups of individuals
 and geographic areas to be served, including types of services to be
 furnished, estimated cost of providing comprehensive services on an average
 per user basis, types and natures of conditions and needs to be identified
 and assisted, and such other information as the Secretary requires;
 `(I) describe the manner in which the applicant will implement the requirement
 of section 773;
 `(J) provide for the establishment of an advisory council that shall provide
 policy and programming guidance to the eligible entity, consisting of not
 more than 15 members that shall include--
 `(i) participants in the programs, including parents;
 `(ii) representatives of local private industry;
 `(iii) individuals with expertise in the services the program intends
 to offer;
 `(iv) representatives of the community in which the program will be located;
 `(v) representatives of local government social service providers;
 `(vi) representatives of local law enforcement agencies;
 `(vii) representatives of the local public housing agency, where appropriate;
 and
 `(viii) representatives of local education providers;
 `(K) describe plans for evaluating the impact of the program;
 `(L) include such additional assurances, including submitting necessary
 reports, as the Secretary may reasonably require;
 `(M) contain an assurance that if the applicant intends to assess fees for
 services provided with assistance under this section, such fees shall be
 nominal in relation to the financial situation of the recipient of such
 services; and
 `(N) contain an assurance that amounts received under a grant awarded under
 this section shall be used to supplement not supplant Federal, State and
 local funds currently utilized to provide services of the type described
 in this section.
 `(f) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS-
 `(1) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS- Two percent of the amounts appropriated under
 this title may be used by the Secretary to administer and evaluate the
 program established under this title and to provide technical assistance
 to entities for the development and submission of applications for grants
 under this section.
 `(2) LIMITATION- Not more than 30 grants may be made under this subtitle.
 `(3) AMOUNT OF GRANTS- No grant made under this subtitle may exceed $2,500,000
 per year nor more than a total of $4,000,000 for 2 years. Funds received
 under such grants shall remain available until expended.
 `(g) FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS- Each program that receives assistance under
 this section shall establish one or more family support centers that operate--
 `(1) in or near the immediate vicinity of governmentally subsidized housing;
 `(2) in urban poverty areas; or
 `(3) in non-urban poverty areas.
Such centers shall be the primary location for the administration of the
programs and the provision of services under this title.
`SEC. 773. TRAINING AND RETENTION.
 `The Secretary shall require that entities that receive a grant under section
 772 use not more than 7 percent of such grant to improve the retention and
 effectiveness of staff and volunteers.
`SEC. 774. FAMILY CASE MANAGERS.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT- Each entity that receives a grant under section 772 shall
 employ, subject to subsection (e), an appropriate number of individuals
 with expertise in the provision of intensive and comprehensive supportive
 services to serve as family case managers for the program.
 `(b) NEEDS ASSESSMENT- Each low-income family that desires to receive
 services from a program that receives assistance under this subtitle shall
 be assessed by a family case manager on such family's initial visit to such
 program as to their need for services.
 `(c) CONTINUING FUNCTIONS- Family case managers shall formulate a service plan
 based on a needs assessment for each family. Such case manager shall carry
 out such plan, and remain available to provide such family with counseling
 and referral services, to enable such family to become self-sufficient. In
 carrying out such plan the case manager shall conduct monitoring, tracking,
 and follow-up activities, as appropriate.
 `(d) LIMITATION- Each family case manager shall have a caseload that is of a
 sufficiently small size so as to permit such manager to effectively manage the
 delivery of comprehensive services to those families assigned to such manager.
`SEC. 775. GATEWAY PROGRAMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall use amounts made available in accordance
 with section 772(b) to make not more than 5 demonstration grants to local
 education agencies who, in consultation with the local public housing
 authority and private industry council, agree to provide on-site education,
 training and necessary support services to economically disadvantaged
 residents of public housing.
 `(b) SELECTION OF GRANT RECIPIENTS- The Secretary of Health and Human
 Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, shall select
 a local education agency to receive a grant under subsection (a) if such
 agency has cooperated with the local public housing authority in order to
 meet the following requirements:
 `(1) The local education agency shall demonstrate to the Secretary that
 training and ancillary support services will be accessed through existing
 program providers to the extent that they are located in the immediate
 vicinity of the public housing development, or will contract with such
 providers for on-site service delivery, and that funds provided under this
 section will be utilized to purchase such services only to the extent that
 no other funds can be obtained to fulfill the purpose.
 `(2) The public housing agency shall agree to make available suitable
 facilities in the public housing development for the provision of education,
 training and support services under this section.
 `(3) The local education agency shall demonstrate that the recipients
 of service have been recruited with the assistance of the public housing
 authority and are eligible individuals in accordance with the priorities
 established in subsection (c).
 `(4) The local education agency shall demonstrate the ability to coordinate
 the services provided in this section with other services provided, with
 the public housing development and private industry council as well as
 with other public and private agencies and community-based organizations
 of demonstrated effectiveness providing similar and ancillary services to
 the target population.
 `(5) The local education agency shall demonstrate that they have, to the
 fullest extent practicable, attempted to employ residents of the public
 housing development to carry out the purposes of this section whenever
 qualified residents are available.
 `(c) INDIVIDUALS ELIGIBLE FOR SERVICES- Local education agencies receiving
 grants under this section shall target participation in the training and
 services provided under such grants to individuals who--
 `(1) reside in public housing;
 `(2) are economically disadvantaged; and
 `(3) have encountered barriers to employment because of basic skills
 deficiency including not having a high school diploma, GED, or the equivalent.
 `(d) PRIORITY- Local education agencies providing services under this
 section shall give priority to single heads of households with young
 dependent children.
 `(e) MANDATORY SERVICES- Any local education agency that receives a grant
 under this section shall establish a Gateway program to provide--
 `(1) outreach and information services designed to make eligible individuals
 aware of available services;
 `(2) literacy and bilingual education services, where appropriate;
 `(3) remedial education and basic skills training;
 `(4) employment training and personal management skill development or
 referrals for such services; and
 `(5) child care or dependent care for dependents of eligible individuals
 during those times, including afternoons and evenings, when training services
 are being provided.
To the extent practicable, child care or dependent care services shall be
designed to employ public housing residents after appropriate training.
 `(f) PERMISSIVE SERVICES- Local education agencies receiving grants under
 this section may make available, as part of their Gateway programs--
 `(1) pre-employment skills training;
 `(2) employment counseling and application assistance;
 `(3) job development services;
 `(4) job training;
 `(5) Federal employment-related activity services;
 `(6) completion of high school or GED program services;
 `(7) transitional assistance, including child care for up to 6 months to
 enable such individual to successfully secure unsubsidized employment;
 `(8) substance abuse prevention and education; and
 `(9) other support services that the Secretary deems to be appropriate.
`SEC. 776. EVALUATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall contract for an independent evaluation
 of the programs and entities that receive assistance under this title. Such
 evaluation shall be complete not later than the date that is 15 months
 after the date on which the first grants are awarded under this title.
 `(b) MATTER TO BE EVALUATED- The evaluation conducted under subsection (a)
 shall examine the degree to which the programs receiving assistance under
 this title have fulfilled the objectives included in the application in
 accordance with section 722(e)(2) in--
 `(1) enhancing the living conditions in low income housing and in
 neighborhoods;
 `(2) improving the physical, social and educational development of low
 income children and families served by the program;
 `(3) achieving progress towards increased potential for independence and
 self-sufficiency among families served by the program;
 `(4) the degree to which the provision of services is affected by caseload
 size;
 `(5) promoting increases in literacy levels and basic employment skills
 among residents of public housing developments served by grants under
 section 776; and
 `(6) such other factors that the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(c) INFORMATION- Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subtitle
 shall furnish information requested by evaluators in order to carry out
 this section.
 `(d) RESULTS- The results of such evaluation shall be provided by the
 Secretary to the eligible entities conducting the programs to enable such
 entities to improve such programs.
`SEC. 777. REPORT.
 `Not later than July 1, 1992, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to
 the Committee on Education and Labor, of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report--
 `(1) concerning the evaluation required under section 776;
 `(2) providing recommendations for replicating grant programs, including
 identifying the geographic and demographic characteristics of localities
 where this service coordination and delivery system may prove effective;
 `(3) describing any alternative sources of funding utilized or available
 for the provision of services of the type described in this subtitle; and
 `(4) describing the degree to which entities are coordinating with other
 existing programs.
`SEC. 778. CONSTRUCTION.
 `Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to modify the Federal selection
 preferences described in section 6 of the United States Housing Act of 1937
 (42 U.S.C. 1437d) or the authorized policies and procedures of governmental
 housing authorities operating under annual assistance contracts pursuant
 to such Act with respect to admissions, tenant selection and evictions.
`SEC. 779. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle,
 $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $55,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and
 such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1993.'.
Subtitle F--Preventive Services Regarding Children of Homeless Families or
Families at Risk of Homelessness
SEC. 661. CERTAIN PREVENTIVE SERVICES REGARDING CHILDREN OF HOMELESS FAMILIES
OR FAMILIES AT RISK OF HOMELESSNESS.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) homelessness too often results in the placements of children into
 out-of-home care, or delays the reunification of such children with their
 parents; and
 (2) strong coordination between child welfare agencies and housing authorities
 can protect homeless children or children at risk of becoming homeless from
 abuse and neglect and help prevent the unnecessary separation of children
 from their families.
 (b) AMENDMENT- The Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101
 et seq.) (as amended by Public Law 101-126) is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following new title:
`TITLE III--CERTAIN PREVENTIVE SERVICES REGARDING CHILDREN OF HOMELESS
FAMILIES OR FAMILIES AT RISK OF HOMELESSNESS
`SEC. 301. DEMONSTRATION GRANTS FOR PREVENTION OF INAPPROPRIATE SEPARATION
FROM FAMILY AND FOR PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Secretary may make grants to entities
 described in subsection (b)(1) for the purpose of assisting such entities in
 demonstrating, with respect to children whose families are homeless or at risk
 of becoming homeless, the effectiveness of activities undertaken to prevent--
 `(1) the inappropriate separation of such children from their families on
 the basis of homelessness or other problems regarding the availability and
 conditions of housing for such families; and
 `(2) the abuse and neglect of such children.
 `(b) MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF GRANTEES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The entities referred to in subsection (a) are State
 and local agencies that provide services in geographic areas described in
 paragraph (2), and that have authority--
 `(A) for removing children, temporarily or permanently, from the custody
 of the parents (or other legal guardians) of such children and placing such
 children in foster care or other out-of-home care; or
 `(B) in the case of youths not less than 16 years of age for whom such
 a placement has been made, for assisting such youths in preparing to be
 discharged from such care into circumstances of providing for their own
 support.
 `(2) ELIGIBLE GEOGRAPHIC AREAS- The geographic areas referred to in paragraph
 (1) are geographic areas in which homelessness and other housing problems
 are--
 `(A) threatening the well-being of children; and
 `(B)(i) contributing to the placement of children in out-of-home care;
 `(ii) preventing the reunification of children with their families; or
 `(iii) in the case of youths not less than 16 years of age who have been
 placed in out-of-home care, preventing such youths from being discharged
 from such care into circumstances of providing their own support without
 adequate living arrangements.
 `(3) COOPERATION WITH APPROPRIATE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTITIES- The Secretary
 shall not make a grant under subsection (a) unless the agency involved has
 entered into agreements with appropriate entities in the geographic area
 involved (including child welfare agencies, public housing agencies, and
 appropriate public and nonprofit private entities that provide services to
 homeless families) regarding the joint planning, coordination and delivery
 of services under the grant.
 `(c) Requirement of Matching Funds-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall not make a grant under subsection
 (a) unless the agency involved agrees that, with respect to the costs to
 be incurred by such agency in carrying out the purpose described in such
 subsection, the agency will make available (directly or through donations
 from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such
 costs in an amount equal to not less than $1 for each $4 of Federal funds
 provided in such grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION- Non-Federal
 contributions required under paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly
 evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the
 Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant
 extent by the Federal Government, shall not be included in determining the
 amount of such non-Federal contributions.
`SEC. 302. PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO CARRYING OUT PURPOSE OF DEMONSTRATION
GRANTS.
 `(a) Joint Training of Appropriate Service Personnel-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall not make a grant under section 301(a)
 unless the agency involved agrees to establish, with respect to the subjects
 described in paragraph (2), a program for joint training concerning such
 subjects, for appropriate personnel of child welfare agencies, public housing
 agencies, and appropriate public and private entities that provide services
 to homeless families.
 `(2) SPECIFICATION OF TRAINING SUBJECTS- The subjects referred to in paragraph
 (1) are--
 `(A) the relationship between homelessness, and other housing problems,
 and the initial and prolonged placement of children in out-of-home care;
 `(B) the housing-related needs of families with children who are at risk
 of placement in out-of-home care; and
 `(C) resources (including housing-related assistance) that are available to
 prevent the initial or prolonged placement in out-of-home care of children
 whose families are homeless or who have other housing problems.
 `(b) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- In addition to activities authorized
 in subsection (a), a grantee under section 301(a) may expend grant funds for--
 `(1) the hiring of additional personnel to provide assistance in obtaining
 appropriate housing--
 `(A) to families whose children are at imminent risk of placement in
 out-of-home care or who are awaiting the return of children placed in such
 care; and
 `(B) to youth who are preparing to be discharged from such care into
 circumstances of providing for their own support;
 `(2) training and technical assistance for the personnel of shelters and
 other programs for homeless families (including domestic violence shelters)
 to assist such programs--
 `(A) in the prevention and identification of child abuse and neglect among
 the families the programs served; and
 `(B) in obtaining appropriate resources for families who need social services,
 including supportive services and respite care;
 `(3) the development and dissemination of informational materials to
 advise homeless families with children and others who are seeking housing
 of resources and programs available to assist them; and
 `(4) other activities, if authorized by the Secretary, that are necessary
 to address housing problems that result in the inappropriate initial or
 prolonged placement of children in out-of-home care.
`SEC. 303. ADDITIONAL REQUIRED AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- The Secretary shall not make a grant under
 section 301(a) unless the agency involved agrees that such agency will--
 `(1) annually prepare and submit to the Secretary a report describing the
 specific activities carried out by the agency under the grant; and
 `(2) include in the report submitted under paragraph (1), the results of
 an evaluation of the extent to which such activities have been effective
 in carrying out the purpose described in such section, including the effect
 of such activities regarding--
 `(A) the incidence of placements of children in out-of-home care;
 `(B) the reunification of children with their families; and
 `(C) in the case of youths not less than 16 years of age who have been
 placed in out-of-home care, the discharge of such youths from such care
 into circumstances of providing for their own support with adequate living
 arrangements.
 `(b) EVALUATION BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall conduct evaluations
 to determine the effectiveness of demonstration programs supported under
 section 301(a) in--
 `(1) strengthening coordination between child welfare agencies, housing
 authorities, and programs for homeless families;
 `(2) preventing placements of children into out-of-home care due to
 homelessness or other housing problems;
 `(3) facilitating the reunification of children with their families; and
 `(4) in the case of youths not less than 16 years old who have been placed
 in out-of-home care, preventing such youth from being discharged from such
 care into circumstances of providing their own support without adequate
 living arrangements.
 `(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS-
 `(1) PREPARATION OF LIST- Not later than April 1, 1991, the Secretary, after
 consultation  with the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Housing and
 Urban Development and the Secretary of Labor, shall prepare and submit to
 the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate a list of Federal
 programs that provide services, or fund grants, contracts, or cooperative
 agreements for the provision of services, directed to the prevention of
 homelessness for families whose children are at risk of out of home placement
 and the incidence of child abuse that may be associated with homelessness,
 that shall include programs providing--
 `(A) rent, utility, and other subsidies;
 `(B) training; and
 `(C) for inter-agency coordination, at both the local and State and Federal
 level.
 `(2) CONTENTS OF LIST- The list prepared under paragraph (1) shall include
 a description of--
 `(A) the appropriate citations relating to the authority for such programs;
 `(B) entities that are eligible to participate in each such program;
 `(C) authorization levels and the annual amounts appropriated for such
 programs for each fiscal year in which such programs were authorized;
 `(D) the agencies and divisions administering each such program;
 `(E) the expiration date of the authority of each such program; and
 `(F) to the extent available, the extent to which housing assistance under
 such programs can be accessed by child welfare and other appropriate agencies.
 `(3) REPORT- Not later than March 1, 1993, the Secretary shall prepare and
 submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that contains a
 description of the activities carried out under this title, and an assessment
 of the effectiveness of such programs in preventing initial and prolonged
 separation of children from their families due to homelessness and other
 housing problems.  At a minimum the report shall contain--
 `(A) information describing the localities in which activities are conducted;
 `(B) information describing the specific  activities undertaken with grant
 funds and, where relevant, the numbers of families and children assisted
 by such activities;
 `(C) information concerning the nature of the joint training conducted with
 grant funds;
 `(D) information concerning the manner in which other agencies such as child
 welfare, public housing authorities, and appropriate public and nonprofit
 private entities are consulting and coordinating with existing programs
 that are designed to prevent homelessness and to serve homeless families
 and youth; and
 `(E) information concerning the impact of programs supported with grant
 funds under this title on--
 `(i) the incidence of the placement of children into out-of-home care;
 `(ii) the reunification of children with their families; and
 `(iii) in the case of youth not less than 16 years of age who have been
 placed in out-of-home care, the discharge of such youths from such care
 into circumstances of providing for their own support with adequate living
 arrangements.
 `(d) RESTRICTION ON USE OF GRANT- The Secretary may not make a grant under
 section 301(a) unless the agency involved agrees that the agency will not
 expend the grant to purchase or improve real property.
`SEC. 304. DESCRIPTION OF INTENDED USES OF GRANT.
 `The Secretary shall not make a grant under section 301(a) unless--
 `(1) the agency involved submits to the Secretary a description of the
 purposes for which the agency intends to expend the grant;
 `(2) with respect to the entities with which the agency has made agreements
 pursuant to section 301(b)(1), such entities have assisted the agency in
 preparing the description required in paragraph (1); and
 `(3) the description includes a statement of the methods that the agency
 will utilize in conducting the evaluations required in section 303(a)(2).
`SEC. 305. REQUIREMENT OF SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
 `The Secretary shall not make a grant under section 301(a) unless an
 application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the application
 contains the description of intended uses required in section 304, and
 the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such
 agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be
 necessary to carry out this title.
`SEC. 306. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out this title, there are
 authorized to be appropriated $12,500,000 for fiscal year 1992.
 `(b) AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS- Amounts appropriated under subsection
 (a) shall remain available until expended.'.
 (c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The Child Abuse and Prevention Act
 (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is amended in the table of contents in section
 101(b) by adding at the end thereof the following new items:
`TITLE III--CERTAIN PREVENTIVE SERVICES REGARDING CHILDREN OF HOMELESS
FAMILIES OR FAMILIES AT RISK OF HOMELESSNESS
`Sec. 301. Demonstration grants for prevention of inappropriate separation
from family and for prevention of child abuse and neglect.
`Sec. 302. Provisions with respect to carrying out purpose of demonstration
grants.
`Sec. 303. Additional required agreements.
`Sec. 304. Description of intended uses of grant.
`Sec. 305. Requirement of submission of application.
`Sec. 306. Authorization of appropriations.'.
TITLE VII--VETERANS PROGRAMS
SEC. 701. MEDICAL PROGRAMS.
 Section 801(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act
 of 1988 (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3257) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Department of Veterans Affairs $31,500,000 for fiscal year 1991
 and $33,075,000 for fiscal year 1992 for the medical care of veterans by
 the Department. Any amount appropriated under this subsection shall be
 in addition to any funds appropriated pursuant to any other authorization
 (whether definite or indefinite) of appropriations for fiscal years 1991
 and 1992.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.