 
--H.R.875--
H.R.875
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To expand the boundaries of the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County
Battlefields Memorial National Military Park near Fredericksburg, Virginia.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County
 Battlefields Memorial National Military Park Expansion Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. REVISION OF PARK BOUNDARIES.
 (a) BOUNDARY REVISION- In furtherance of the purposes of the Act entitled
 `An Act to establish a national military park at and near Fredericksburg,
 Virginia, and to mark and preserve historical points connected with
 the battles of Fredericksburg, Spotsylvania Court House, Wilderness, and
 Chancellorsville, including Salem Church, Virginia', approved February 14,
 1927 (44 Stat. 1091), the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County Battlefields
 Memorial National Military Park (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
 `park') shall hereafter comprise the lands and interests in lands within
 the boundary generally depicted as `Proposed Park Boundary' on the maps
 entitled `Fredericksburg and Spotslyvania National Military Park',, numbered
 326-40075D/89, 326-40074E/89, 326-40069B/89, 326-40070D/89, 326-40071C/89,
 326-40072E/89, 326-40076A/89, and 326-40073D/89, and dated June 1989. The
 maps shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of
 the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
SEC. 3. ACQUISITIONS AND CONVEYANCES.
 (a) ACQUISITION- The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and interests
 in lands within the park, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated
 funds or by exchange.
 (b) EXCLUDED LANDS- Lands and interests in lands within the boundary
 depicted on the maps referred to in subsection (a) as `Existing Park
 Boundary' but outside of the boundary depicted as `Proposed Park Boundary'
 are hereby excluded from the park, in accordance with the provisions of
 subsection 3(b). The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as
 the `Secretary') may relinquish to the Commonwealth of Virginia exclusive
 or concurrent legislative jurisdiction over lands excluded from the park by
 this section by filing with the Governor a notice of relinquishment. Such
 relinquishment shall take effect upon acceptance thereof, or as the laws
 of the Commonwealth may otherwise provide.
 (b) CONVEYANCE OF LANDS EXCLUDED FROM PARK- (1) The Secretary is authorized,
 in accordance with applicable existing law, to exchange Federal lands and
 interests excluded from the park pursuant to subsection 2(b) for the purpose
 of acquiring lands within the park boundary.
 (2) If any such Federal lands or interests are not exchanged within five
 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary may sell any
 or all such lands or interests to the highest bidder, in accordance with
 such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, but any such conveyance
 shall be at not less than the fair market value of the land or interest,
 as determined by the Secretary.
 (3) All Federal lands and interests sold or exchanged pursuant to this
 subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as will assure the
 use of the property in a manner which, in the judgment of the Secretary,
 will protect the battlefield setting. Notwithstanding any other provision
 of law, the net proceeds from any such sale or exchange shall be used,
 subject to appropriations, to acquire lands and interests within the park.
 (c) ALTERNATIVE ACCESS- In order to facilitate the acquisition by the United
 States of existing easements or rights of access across Federal lands within
 the park and to provide the owners of such easements or rights of access
 with alternative rights of access across nonpark lands, the Secretary
 may acquire, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds,
 or exchange, interests in land of similar estate across lands which are
 not within the park. With or without the acceptance of payment of cash to
 equalize the values of the properties, the Secretary may convey such nonpark
 lands or interests in lands to the holders of such existing easements or
 rights of access across Federal lands within the park in exchange for their
 conveyance to the United States of such easements or rights. Nothing in this
 Act shall prohibit the Secretary from acquiring any outstanding easements
 or rights of access across Federal lands by donation, purchase with donated
 or appropriated funds or by exchange.
 (d) CONSERVATION EASEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized to accept
 donations of conservation easements on lands adjacent to the park. Such
 conservation easements shall have the effect of protecting the scenic and
 historic resources on park lands and the adjacent lands or preserving the
 undeveloped or historic appearance of the park when viewed from within or
 without the park.
 (e) OTHER PROVISIONS- Within the area bounded by the Orange Turnpike, the
 Orange Plank Road, and McLaws Drive no improved property (as defined in
 section 4) may be acquired without the consent of the owner thereof unless
 the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property is subject to,
 or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an adverse impact
 on the park.
SEC. 4. RETAINED RIGHTS.
 (a) RETENTION OF USE AND OCCUPANCY- With the exception of property which the
 Secretary determines is necessary for development or public use, the owner
 or owners of improved property acquired pursuant to this Act may retain
 a right of use and occupancy of such improved property for noncommercial
 residential purposes for a definite term of not more than twenty-five years,
 or for a term ending at the death of the owner or the owner's spouse. The
 owner shall elect the term to be reserved, except that if the owner is a
 corporation, trust, partnership, or any entity other than an individual,
 the term shall not exceed twenty-five years. Ownership shall be determined
 as of June 1, 1989. Unless the property is wholly or partially donated,
 the Secretary shall pay to the owner the fair market value of the property
 on the date of such acquisition, less the fair market value of the right
 retained by the owner.
 (b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Any rights retained pursuant to this section shall
 be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe and
 may be terminated by the Secretary upon his determination and after reasonable
 notice to the owner thereof that such property is being used for any purpose
 which is incompatible with the administration, protection, or public use of
 the park. Such right shall terminate by operation of law upon notification
 of the owner by the Secretary and tendering to the owner an amount equal
 to the fair market value of that portion of the right which remains unexpired.
 (c) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `improved property' means
 a year-round noncommercial single-family dwelling together with such land, in
 the same ownership as the dwelling, as the Secretary determines is reasonably
 necessary for the enjoyment of the dwelling for single-family residential use.
SEC. 5. INTERPRETATION.
 In administering the park, the Secretary shall take such action as is
 necessary and appropriate to interpret, for the benefit of visitors to the
 park and the general public, the battles of Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville,
 Spotsylvania Courthouse, and the Wilderness in the larger context of the
 Civil War and American history, including the causes and consequences of the
 Civil War and including the effects of the war on all the American people,
 especially on the American South.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.