 
--H.R.5131--
H.R.5131
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to extend the civil penalty
assessment
demonstration program, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 Section 905(d)(4) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
 U.S.C. App. 1475(d)(4)) is amended by striking `the 31-month period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of this section' and inserting `the period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this section and ending on August
 1, 1992'.
SEC. 2. AIRPORT SECURITY PROGRAMS.
 Section 316 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1357)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) AIRPORT TENANTS SECURITY PROGRAMS- The Administrator may approve under
 this section a security program of an airport operator, and may approve
 an amendment to a security program of an airport operator approved by the
 Administrator under subsection (b), which incorporates a security program
 of an airport tenant (other than an air carrier separately complying with
 part 108 or 129 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations) having
 access to the secured areas of the airport--
 `(1) if such program or amendment incorporates the measures by which the
 tenant will carry out, within the tenant's leased areas or areas designated
 for the tenant's exclusive use under an agreement with the airport operator,
 the security requirements imposed by the Administrator on the airport
 operator pursuant to the access control system requirements of section
 107.14 of such title or to other requirements of part 107 of such title; and
 `(2) if such program or amendment incorporates the methods by which the
 airport operator will monitor and audit the tenant's compliance with such
 security requirements and provides that the tenant will be required to pay
 financial penalties to the airport operator in the event the tenant fails
 to carry out any such security requirement in accordance with a contractual
 provision or requirement imposed by the airport operator.
If the Administrator approves a program or amendment described in this
subsection, the airport operator may not be found to be in violation of
a requirement of this section in any case in which the airport operator
demonstrates that the tenant or an employee, permittee, or invitee of the
tenant is responsible for such violation and that the airport operator has
complied with all measures in its security program for securing compliance
with its security program by the tenant.'.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE EVALUATION OF ADJUDICATORY PROCEDURES.
 (a) STUDY AND EVALUATION- The Administrative Conference of the United States
 shall conduct a study and evaluation of the administrative adjudicatory
 procedures of the Federal Aviation Administration and the National
 Transportation Safety Board and shall make a recommendation not later
 than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act as to whether
 the authority to adjudicate administrative complaints under the Federal
 Aviation Act of 1958 should remain with the Department of Transportation,
 should be transferred to the National Transportation Safety Board, or should
 be otherwise modified.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section $50,000 for fiscal year 1991. Such funds shall
 be in addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 576
 of title 5, United States Code, and shall remain available until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.