 
--H.R.881--
H.R.881
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide for restoration of the Federal trust relationship with, and
assistance to, the Coquille Tribe of Indians and the individual members
consisting of the Coquille Tribe of Indians, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Coquille Restoration Act'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) `Tribe' means the Coquille Indian Tribe consisting of the Upper Coquille
 and the Lower Coquille Tribes of Indians;
 (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior or his designated
 representative;
 (3) `Interim Council' means the governing body of the Coquille Tribe which
 serves pursuant to section 8 of this Act;
 (4) `Member' means those persons eligible for enrollment under section 7
 of this Act and after the adoption of a tribal constitution, those persons
 added to the roll pursuant to such constitution;
 (5) `service area' means the area composed of Coos, Curry, Douglas, Jackson,
 and Lane Counties in the State of Oregon;
 (6) `State' means the State of Oregon; and
 (7) `Reservation' means those lands subsequently acquired and held in trust
 by the Secretary for the benefit of the Tribe.
SEC. 3. RESTORATION OF FEDERAL RECOGNITION, RIGHTS, AND PRIVILEGES.
 (a) FEDERAL RECOGNITION- Notwithstanding any provision of law, Federal
 recognition is hereby extended to the Coquille Indian Tribe. Except as
 otherwise provided herein, all laws and regulations of general application
 to Indians or nations, tribes, or bands of Indians that are not inconsistent
 with any specific provision of this Act shall be applicable to the Tribe
 and its Members.
 (b) RESTORATION OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES- Except as provided in subsection
 (d) of this section, all rights and privileges of this Tribe and of its
 Members under any Federal treaty, Executive order, agreement or statute or
 under any other authority, which were diminished or lost under the Act of
 August 13, 1954 (68 Stat. 724), are hereby restored and provisions of said
 Act shall be inapplicable to the Tribe and its Members after the date of
 enactment of this Act.
 (c) FEDERAL SERVICES AND BENEFITS- Notwithstanding any other provision of
 law and without regard to the existence of a reservation, the Tribe and its
 Members shall be eligible, on and after the date of enactment of this Act,
 for all Federal services and benefits furnished to federally recognized
 Indian tribes or their members. In the case of Federal services available to
 members of federally recognized tribes residing on a reservation, Members
 of the Tribe in the Tribe's service area shall be deemed to be residing
 on a reservation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tribe
 shall be considered an Indian tribe for the purpose of the Indian Tribal
 Government Tax Status Act (26 U.S.C. 7871).
 (d) HUNTING, FISHING, TRAPPING, AND WATER RIGHTS- Nothing in this Act shall
 expand, reduce, or affect in any manner any hunting, fishing, trapping,
 gathering, or water right of the Tribe and its Members.
 (e) INDIAN REORGANIZATION ACT APPLICABILITY- The Act of June 18, 1934
 (48 Stat. 984), as amended, shall be applicable to the Tribe and its Members.
 (f) CERTAIN RIGHTS NOT ALTERED- Except as specifically provided in this
 Act, nothing in this Act shall alter any property right or obligation,
 any contractual right or obligation, or any obligation for taxes levied.
SEC. 4. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) PLAN FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary shall--
 (1) enter into negotiations with the governing body of the Tribe with
 respect to establishing a plan for economic development for this Tribe;
 (2) in accordance with this section and not later than two years after the
 adoption of a tribal constitution as provided in section 9, develop such
 a plan; and
 (3) upon the approval of such plan by the governing body of the Tribe,
 submit such plan to the Congress.
 (b) RESTRICTIONS TO BE CONTAINED IN PLAN- Any proposed transfer of real
 property contained in the plan developed by the Secretary under subsection
 (a) shall be consistent with the requirements of section 5 of this Act.
SEC. 5. TRANSFER OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.
 (a) LANDS TO BE TAKEN IN TRUST- The Secretary shall accept any real property
 located in Coos and Curry Counties not to exceed one thousand acres for the
 benefit of the Tribe if conveyed or otherwise transferred to the Secretary:
 Provided, That, at the time of such acceptance, there are no adverse legal
 claims on such property including outstanding liens, mortgages, or taxes
 owed. The Secretary may accept any additional acreage in the Tribe's service
 area pursuant to his authority under the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984).
 (b) LANDS TO BE PART OF THE RESERVATION- Subject to the conditions imposed
 by this section, the land transferred shall be taken in the name of the
 United States in trust for the Tribe and shall be part of its reservation.
 (c) LANDS TO BE NONTAXABLE- Any real property taken into trust for the
 benefit of the Tribe under this section shall be exempt from all local,
 State, and Federal taxation as of the date of transfer.
SEC. 6. CRIMINAL AND CIVIL JURISDICTION.
 The State shall exercise criminal and civil jurisdiction within the
 boundaries of the reservation, in accordance with section 1162 of title
 18, United States Code, and section 1360 of title 28, United States Code,
 respectively. Retrocession of such jurisdiction may be obtained pursuant
 to section 403 of the Act of April 11, 1968 (82 Stat. 77).
SEC. 7. MEMBERSHIP ROLLS.
 (a) COMPILATION OF TRIBAL MEMBERSHIP ROLL- Within one year of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall compile a roll of the Coquille Indian Tribe.
 (b) CRITERIA FOR ENROLLMENTS- (1) Until a tribal constitution is adopted, a
 person shall be placed on the membership roll if the individual is living,
 is not an enrolled member of another federally recognized tribe, is of
 Coquille ancestry, possesses at least one-eighth or more of Indian blood
 quantum and if--
 (A) that individual's name was listed on the Coquille roll compiled and
 approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960;
 (B) that individual was not listed on but met the requirements that had
 to be met to be listed on the Coquille roll compiled and approved by the
 Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960; or
 (C) that individual is a lineal descendant of an individual, living or dead,
 identified by subparagraph (A) or (B).
 (2) After adoption of a tribal constitution, said constitution shall govern
 membership in the Tribe: Provided, That in addition to meeting any other
 criteria imposed in such tribal constitution, any person added to the roll
 has to be of Coquille Indian ancestry and cannot be a member of another
 federally recognized Indian tribe.
 (c) CONCLUSIVE PROOF OF COQUILLE ANCESTRY AND DEGREE OF INDIAN BLOOD QUANTUM-
 For the purpose of subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary shall accept
 any available evidence establishing Coquille ancestry and the required amount
 of Indian blood quantum. However, the Secretary shall accept as conclusive
 evidence of Coquille ancestry information contained in the Coquille roll
 compiled by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960, and as conclusive
 evidence of Indian blood quantum the information contained in the January 1,
 1940, census roll of nonreservation Indians of the Grand Ronde-Siletz Agency.
SEC. 8. INTERIM GOVERNMENT.
 Until a new tribal constitution and bylaws are adopted and become effective
 under section 9 of this Act, the Tribe's governing body shall be an Interim
 Council. The initial membership of the Interim Council shall consist of the
 members of the Tribal Council of the Coquille Tribe on the date of enactment
 of this Act, and the Interim Council shall continue to operate in the manner
 prescribed for the Tribal Council under the tribal bylaws adopted on April 23,
 1979. Any new members filling vacancies on the Interim Council must meet the
 criteria for enrollment in section 7(b) of this Act and be elected in the
 same manner as are Tribal Council members under the April 23, 1979, bylaws.
SEC. 9. TRIBAL CONSTITUTION.
 (a) ELECTION; TIME AND PROCEDURE- Upon the completion of the tribal
 membership roll and upon the written request of the Interim Council, the
 Secretary shall conduct, by secret ballot, an election for the purpose of
 adopting a constitution for the Tribe. Absentee balloting shall be permitted
 regardless of voter residence. In every other regard, the election shall
 be held according to section 16 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984),
 as amended.
 (b) ELECTION OF TRIBAL OFFICIALS; PROCEDURES- Not later than one hundred
 and twenty days after the Tribe adopts a constitution and bylaws, the
 Secretary shall conduct an election by secret ballot for the purpose of
 electing tribal officials as provided in the tribal constitution. Said
 election shall be conducted according to the procedures stated in paragraph
 (a) of this section except to the extent that said procedures conflict with
 the tribal constitution.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.