 
--H.R.5796--
H.R.5796
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To conduct certain studies in the State of New Mexico.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--ENCHANTED NATIONAL FOREST INFORMATION AND EDUCATION STUDY
SEC. 101. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) environmental education is fundamental to expanding our understanding
 of the environment;
 (2) the natural resources found on national forests in New Mexico, the Land
 of Enchantment, can contribute to environmental education programs;
 (3) the Forest Service plays a vital role in the environmental education
 of all Americans;
 (4) a center to provide information on the national forests in New
 Mexico would increase public awareness of their national forests, increase
 participation in management decisions, and improve the public's appreciation
 of their national forests;
 (5) there is not a central facility dedicated to providing information on
 the national forests in New Mexico to residents and out-of-State visitors; and
 (6) in light of the opportunities provided by national forests and the
 importance of environmental education, it is necessary to identify, through
 a comprehensive study, the opportunities that are available to provide
 information to the public on the national forests of New Mexico and to
 expand the environmental education program for those forests.
SEC. 102. STUDY AND REPORT BY THE FOREST SERVICE.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the
 Forest Service, shall conduct a study of the opportunities to establish a
 center to provide information on the national forests in New Mexico and to
 expand the environmental education program for those forests.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date that funds are made
 available for the study referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall transmit the Study to the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 of the House of Representatives.
 (c) CONTENTS OF STUDY- The study referred to in subsection (a) shall
 develop alternative means for the national forests in New Mexico to provide
 information that improves public awareness and participation in management
 of their national forests and to expand the environmental education program
 for those forests. Alternatives shall include an information and education
 center located in or near Albuquerque, New Mexico, and an expanded education
 outreach program.
SEC. 103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry
 out this title.
TITLE II--CAVE RESEARCH INSTITUTE
SEC. 201. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The World's most exposed fossil reef, Capitan Reef, in southern New
 Mexico that includes Carlsbad Caverns, contains over 300 caves, including 75
 identified caves in Carlsbad Caverns National Park and 22 caves in Guadalupe
 Mountains National Park.
 (2) Recent explorations of Lechuguilla Cave at Carlsbad Caverns National
 Park have provided much new information about the wonders of this cave
 including the fact that it is the second deepest cave in the United States
 and contains outstanding world-class cave features such as gypsum crystal
 chandeliers and gypsum flowers.
 (3) The Lechuguilla Cave has been described by cave researchers as possibly
 the finest cave in America.
 (4) The interest and excitement of cave researchers throughout the world
 have been focused on Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
 (5) Cave researchers could use this research institute as an operational
 base for study of caves in other regions and as a focal point for storage
 of data on cave geology and speleology.
 (6) The Congress, with the passage of Public Law 100-691, the Federal
 Cave Resources Protection Act of 1988, recognized the significance of cave
 resources on Federal lands and established the policy that Federal lands be
 managed in a manner which protects and maintains, to the extent practicable,
 significant cave resources.
SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF CAVE RESEARCH PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to provide for needed research relating to
 cave resources on certain lands in the United States, the Secretary of the
 Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service shall
 establish and administer a Cave Research Program (hereinafter in this title
 referred to as the `Program'). The Program shall include the orderly and
 scholarly collection, analysis, and dissemination of research material
 related to caves in lands managed by the National Park Service including,
 but not limited to, Carlsbad Caverns National Park and the Capitan Reef area.
 (b) FUNCTIONS- The Program shall produce educational and interpretive
 information and materials vital to public understanding of cave geology,
 assist students and researchers, and provide for a comprehensive evaluation
 of cave resources and measures needed for their protection.
 (c) EMPHASIS- The program shall be directed primarily toward lands managed
 by the National Park Service, but the Secretary of the Interior may enter
 into cooperative agreements with other agencies or entities as may be
 appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title.
SEC. 203. CAVE RESEARCH INSTITUTE STUDY.
 Not later than one year after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
 Interior shall prepare and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and
 Insular Affairs of the  United States House of Representatives a study
 on the feasibility of establishing a Cave Research Institute. The Study
 shall include the need for such a facility, its costs, its purposes, what
 the facility should include and where it should be located. An analysis of
 potential sites for the Institute should include, but not be limited to,
 Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
SEC. 204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this title.
TITLE III--PREHISTORIC TRACKWAYS STUDY
SEC. 301. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) fossils are important for scientific studies of prehistoric life on earth;
 (2) lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the Robledo
 Mountains in New Mexico contain one of the most important fossil discoveries
 of the 20th century;
 (3) discoveries have included prehistoric tracks of amphibians, reptiles,
 arthropods and insects, extensive plant fossils, and clues to the weather
 and climate of the period;
 (4) fossil footprints that form trackways help scientists recreate the
 environment and habitat that supported prehistoric life;
 (5) nearly one hundred trackways from the Permian Age have been uncovered
 in the Robledo Mountains;
 (6) the trackways are over 280 million years old and they document the
 emergence of life from water to land;
 (7) the trackways are unique in length and represent most taxonomic groups,
 including many prints of previously unknown animals;
 (8) the trackways and other fossils are being lost for scientific study
 through unsupervised collecting, and commercial quarrying; and
 (9) the trackways and fossils found in the Robledo Mountains and surrounding
 areas should be evaluated for their potential protection and value for
 scientific interpretation and education.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this title are to--
 (1) require the  Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study to consider
 appropriate means to protect the discoveries and identify the scientific,
 interpretive, and public education values associated with the trackways
 and fossils located in the Robledo Mountains in southeastern New Mexico; and
 (2) provide for interim protection of such trackways and fossils.
SEC. 302. INTERIM WITHDRAWAL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The area consisting of approximately 736 acres, as generally
 depicted on the map entitled `Prehistoric Trackways Study Area', numbered
 NM 030-01 and dated September, 1990 (hereafter referred to as the `study
 area'), is hereby withdrawn, subject to valid existing rights, from all
 forms of entry,  appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from
 location, entry, or patent under the mining laws, but not from operation
 under the mineral leasing laws. Such withdrawal shall terminate on the date
 2 years after the date the study referred to in section 303 is transmitted
 to Congress.
 (b) MAP- The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file and available
 for public inspection in the  appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land
 Management, Department of the Interior.
SEC. 303. STUDY.
 (a) STUDY- (1) The  Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with State
 and local governments, and institutions of higher education, shall conduct
 a study of the alternatives for the protection and interpretation of the
 fossil resources within the study area.
 (2) The study shall include an analysis of the importance of the discoveries
 at the site and an evaluation of the feasibility of developing a facility in
 New Mexico to evaluate, curate, display, and interpret the fossil resources
 located within the study area.
 (3) The study shall recommend the preferred administrative designation for
 the area, including but not limited to potential designation as a unit of
 the National Park System, and the  appropriate management agency.
 (b) TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date that
 funds are made available for the study required in subsection (a), the
 Secretary shall transmit such study to the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the  United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and
 Insular Affairs of the  United States House of Representatives.
SEC. 304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be  appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.