 
--H.R.4252--
H.R.4252
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Air Force to purchase certain property at
Pease Air
Force Base, New Hampshire.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PEASE AIR FORCE BASE, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsections (b) through (e), the Secretary of
 the Air Force may--
 (1) make payment pursuant to subsection (b) to purchase all right, title,
 and interest of members of the Air Force and their spouses in manufactured
 housing located at the base manufactured housing park at Pease Air Force
 Base, New Hampshire, on January 1, 1989, and not moved from the base since
 that date; or
 (2) make payment pursuant to subsection (b) and take action described in
 subsection (c)(2) with respect to such housing.
 (b) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- Subject to subsection (c)(2), the Secretary shall
 establish the amount of the payment to be made under this section, but such
 amount shall not exceed--
 (1) 90 percent of the member's purchase price of the manufactured housing; or
 (2) if elected by the member, the amount of the outstanding mortgages on
 such housing that are attributable to purchasing the manufactured housing
 or making a capital improvement thereto.
 (c) DISPOSAL OF MANUFACTURED HOUSING- The Secretary may, subject only to
 the provisions of this section--
 (1) sell, donate, trade, or otherwise dispose of any manufactured housing
 acquired under authority of this section; or
 (2) permit the member to retain the manufactured housing for removal from
 Pease Air Force Base, with an appropriate reduction for the value of the
 manufactured housing as personal property from the amount otherwise payable
 under subsection (b).
 (d) SOURCE OF FUNDS- The payments authorized by subsection (a) shall be made
 from funds appropriated for operation and maintenance of the Department of
 the Air Force for any fiscal year.
 (e) OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary shall require such other terms
 and conditions on any payment made under this section that are in the best
 interests of the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.