 
--H.R.5308--
H.R.5308
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To approve the Fort Hall Indian Water Rights Settlement, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Fort Hall Indian Water Rights Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act, and for no other purposes--
 (1) The term `Agreement' means the `1990 Fort Hall Indian Water Rights
 Agreement' between the State of Idaho, the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, the
 United States, and other participating parties.
 (2) The term `Committee of Nine' means the advisory committee of water
 district 01, which is the instrumentality created by the Director of the
 Idaho Department of Water Resources pursuant to Idaho Code 42-604.
 (3) The term `Final Decree' means the partial decree confirming the Tribal
 water rights described and quantified in Article 7 of the Agreement to be
 entered after the date of enactment of this Act and following submission
 of the Agreement as provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement in Civil
 Case No. 39576 filed in the Fifth Judicial District Court of the State of
 Idaho in and for Twin Falls County on June 17, 1987, entitled In Re the
 General Adjudication of Rights to the Use of Water from the Snake River
 Basin Water System.
 (4) The term `Fort Hall Indian Irrigation Project' means the Federal project
 constructed to provide water for the irrigation of Reservation lands and
 certain ceded lands.
 (5) The term `Idaho Water Resource Board' means the Idaho State Water
 Resource Agency constituted in accordance with Idaho Constitution article
 XV, section 7, or any successor agency.
 (6) The term `Indian' means any person who is a member of a tribe recognized
 as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States
 because of the person's status as an Indian; is recognized as an Indian
 under tribal law; or holds or is recognized by the Secretary as eligible
 to hold restricted trust property on the Reservation.
 (7) The term `Indian lands' means (A) all lands within the exterior boundaries
 of the Reservation that are held in trust or owned for the Shoshone-Bannock
 Tribes or an Indian, and (B) those lands outside the exterior boundaries of
 the Reservation held in trust for or owned by the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes
 or held in trust for or owned subject to a restriction on alienation by a
 member of the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes.
 (8) The term `Michaud Act' means the Act of August 31, 1954, chapter 1159,
 68 Stat. 1026.
 (9) The term `Michaud Contract' means that Memorandum Agreement of April 25,
 1957, between the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 relating to the water supply for the Michaud Division.
 (10) The term `Michaud Division' means that division of the Fort Hall Indian
 Irrigation Project authorized by the Act of August 31, 1954, chapter 1159,
 68 Stat. 1026.
 (11) The term `Party' or `Parties' means any entity or entities that are
 party to the Agreement.
 (12) The term `Reservation' means the Fort Hall Indian Reservation.
 (13) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (14) The term `Tribes' or `Tribal' means the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes,
 its members, and its allottees.
 (15) The term `Upper Snake River Basin' means that portion of the Snake
 River Basin upstream from the Hells Canyon Dam, the lowest of the 3 dams
 authorized as FERC Project No. 1971.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
 The purpose of the Fort Hall Indian Water Rights Settlement Act of 1990 is
 to achieve a fair, equitable, and final settlement of all claims of the
 Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, its members, and its allottees and the United
 States on behalf of the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, its members, and its
 allottees to water rights in the Upper Snake River Basin.
SEC. 4. RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.
 The Agreement is hereby approved, ratified, and confirmed.  The Secretary
 is authorized and directed to implement the Agreement on behalf of the
 United States.
SEC. 5. PROTECTION OF EXISTING USES.
 (a) CONTRACT FOR STORAGE SPACE- The Secretary is authorized and directed
 to contract with the Idaho Water Resource Board or another appropriate
 contracting entity acceptable to the Committee of Nine for 18,900 acre feet
 of storage space in the Palisades Reservoir and the 80,500 acre feet of
 storage space in the Ririe Reservoir provided that the contracting entity
 makes application for the noncontracted storage space within 1 year of
 the date of this Act and the contracting party agrees to pay all operation
 and maintenance costs associated with the space.  The repayment obligation
 associated with the construction costs for such noncontracted storage space
 is hereby deemed repaid by this Act.  All exemptions that result from such
 a repayment shall be deemed to be applicable without further qualification
 on the part of such contracting entity, and with respect to subsequent users
 of this water, the Reclamation laws shall apply only to the extent such laws
 would have applied to such subsequent users prior to the date of this Act.
 (b) LIMITATION ON SETTING ASIDE FINAL DECREE- Neither the Committee of Nine
 nor the State shall have the right to set aside the Final Decree because
 either fails to make application for the storage space referred to in
 subsection (a) of this section within 1 year of the date of this Act.
SEC. 6.  USE, TRANSFER, AND LEASE OF TRIBAL WATER RIGHTS.
 (a) TRANSFER AND LEASE OF TRIBAL WATER RIGHTS WITHIN THE RESERVATION- The
 Tribes shall have the right to transfer or lease within the Reservation all
 or any part of the Tribal water right confirmed in the Final Decree on the
 terms and conditions set forth in article 7 of the Agreement.
 (b) RENTAL OF THE TRIBES FEDERAL CONTRACT STORAGE WATER- The Tribes shall
 have the right to rent, pursuant to Idaho Code 42-1761 through 42-1765
 as specified in article 7 of the Agreement, the water accruing to Federal
 storage space held in trust for the Tribes under the Michaud Act.
 (c) INSTREAM FLOWS- The Tribes shall have the right to use any or all of the
 water accruing to Federal storage space held in trust for the Tribes under
 the Michaud Act for instream flows for river reaches on or adjacent to the
 Reservation and up to 15,000 acre feet per year of the storage water rights
 described in articles 7.1.19 and 7.1.20 of the Agreement for instream flows
 in reaches of the Blackfoot River on the terms and conditions set forth in
 article 7.4 of the Agreement.
 (d) REQUISITE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL- Ratification of the Agreement as
 provided for by section 4 of this Act shall constitute the congressional
 approval, to the extent it is required by Federal law, of the uses described
 in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
 (e) AMENDMENT OF MICHAUD ACT AND CONTRACT- The Michaud Act and the Michaud
 Contract are hereby amended to the extent necessary to authorize the
 uses described in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of the proprietary rights
 described in article 7 of the Agreement.
 (f) NO ALIENATION OR TAXATION OF PROCEEDS- The proceeds from leasing water
 pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or from renting all or any part
 of the water accruing to the Federal contract storage space pursuant to
 subsection (b) of this section shall not be subject to any form of taxation
 or alienation by  the State.
 (g) NO FORFEITURE, ABANDONMENT, LOSS, OR CONSTRAINTS ON INCOME- The Tribes'
 exercise of the rights described in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this
 section or nonuse of the Tribal water rights shall in no event be construed
 or interpreted as any forfeiture, abandonment, relinquishment, or other loss
 of all or any part of the Tribal water rights.  Nor shall the exercise of
 the rights described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section be subject
 to any constraints on the amount of income or other compensation received
 by the Tribes.
 (h) LIMITATION ON OFF-RESERVATION USE- Except as authorized by this section,
 no Tribal water rights or water described in the Agreement may be sold,
 leased, rented, transferred, or otherwise used off the Fort Hall Indian
 Reservation.
SEC. 7. CONTRIBUTION TO SETTLEMENT.
 (a) TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT FUND- There are hereby authorized to be appropriated
 to the Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs $4,000,000 in
 the first fiscal year, $3,000,000 in the second fiscal year, and $3,000,000
 in the third fiscal year following the effective date of this Act for
 payment to the Tribal Development Fund, which the Secretary is authorized
 and directed to establish for the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes.  Within 60 days
 of appropriation of moneys for the Tribal Development Fund, the Secretary
 shall allocate and make payment to the Fund.  Once the funds are deposited
 into the Tribal Development Fund, the Secretary shall disburse the funds
 to the Tribes upon request.
 (b) RESERVATION WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM- There is hereby authorized to be
 appropriated to the Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs
 the sum of $3,000,000 in the first fiscal year, $2,000,000 in the second
 fiscal year, and $2,000,000 in the third fiscal year following the effective
 date of this Act for use by the Tribes for development of a Reservation
 water management system. Within 60 days of appropriation of moneys for the
 Reservation water management system, the Secretary shall allocate and make
 payment to the Tribes for the purposes described in this section.
 (c) ACQUISITION OF LANDS, GRAZING RIGHTS, AND IMPROVEMENTS- There are hereby
 authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the Interior Bureau of
 Indian Affairs $5,000,000 for the primary purposes of acquiring for the Fort
 Hall Indian Irrigation Project available lands and grazing rights adjacent
 to Grays Lake to enhance the operation and management of the project and
 of making related improvements as well as providing collateral benefits
 for the operation of the Fish and Wildlife Service Refuge at Grays Lake.
 (d) LIMITATION ON PER CAPITA DISTRIBUTIONS- Under no circumstances may
 any appropriated funds authorized by subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this
 section be distributed on a per capita basis to members of the Tribes.
 (e) LIMITATION ON SETTING ASIDE FINAL DECREE- Neither the Tribes nor the
 United States shall have the right to set aside the Final Decree because
 Congress fails to appropriate the funds authorized by subsection (a), (b),
 or (c) of this section or because the United States fails to acquire the
 grazing allotments adjacent to Grays Lake.
 (f) TRUST RESPONSIBILITY- Nothing in this Act shall be construed or
 interpreted to alter the future trust responsibility of the United States to
 the Tribes nor to prohibit the Tribes from seeking additional authorization
 or appropriation of funds for Tribal programs or purposes.
SEC. 8. WAIVER OF CLAIMS.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Upon the effective date of the Agreement, the Tribes
 and the United States shall be deemed to have waived and released any
 and all water rights or claims to water rights of the Tribes, its members
 and its allottees from any source within the Upper Snake River Basin other
 than those set forth in article 7 of the Agreement.  This release shall not
 apply to water right claims under State law of Tribal members for lands not
 defined as Indian lands for purposes of this Act nor to any other Indian
 tribe or to any Federal agency other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
 Fort Hall Indian Agency.
 (b) WAIVER OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES- In consideration of
 performance by the United States of all actions required by the Agreement
 and this Act, including the congressional authorization, appropriation,
 and payment of all funds authorized in section 7 of this Act, the Tribes
 shall be deemed to have executed in return a waiver and release of any
 and all existing claims against the United States arising in whole or in
 part from or concerning water rights finally settled by the Agreement and
 for lands or water that have been inundated by the past construction or
 enlargement of American Falls Reservoir.
 (c) WAIVER OF CLAIMS AGAINST NON-FEDERAL PERSONS- Upon entry of the
 Final Decree confirming the Tribal water rights, the United States and the
 Tribes agree not to make any claims against, or seek compensation from, any
 non-Federal person for lands or water that have been inundated by the past
 construction or enlargement of American Falls Reservoir. In the event funds
 are not paid as set forth in section 7, the Tribes are authorized to bring
 an action in the United States Claims Court for such funds plus applicable
 interest. The United States hereby waives any defense of sovereign immunity
 to such action.
SEC. 9. INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS AND ALLOTTEES OF THE TRIBES.
 The water rights described in the Agreement and confirmed in the Final
 Decree are in full satisfaction of all water right claims of members of
 the Tribes and allottees for Indian lands in the Upper Snake River Basin.
 If any Tribal member or allottee is decreed a water right for Indian lands
 in Civil Case No. 39576 filed in the Fifth Judicial District Court of the
 State of Idaho in and for Twin Falls County on June 17, 1987, entitled `In
 Re the General Adjudication of Rights to the Use of Water from the Snake
 River Basin Water System', there shall be a corresponding reduction made
 in the Tribal water rights set forth in the Agreement and the Final Decree.
SEC. 10. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS UPON EFFECTIVE DATE- The moneys appropriated
 pursuant to the authorization in section 7 of this Act shall not be disbursed
 until such time as the Agreement becomes effective.  If the Agreement does
 not become effective, the moneys shall be returned to the General Fund of
 the Treasury, and the Agreement may be voided by any party to the Agreement.
 (b) FORCE AND EFFECT- No provision of this Act shall be of any force unless
 the Agreement becomes effective as provided by article 18 of the Agreement.
SEC. 11. DISCLAIMER.
 (a) GENERAL DISCLAIMER- Nothing in the Agreement or this Act shall be
 construed in any way to quantify or otherwise affect the water rights or
 water right claims of the city of Pocatello, Idaho, or of any Indian tribe,
 band, or community, other than the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes.
 (b) RESERVATION OF TRIBAL CLAIMS- Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
 waive any water rights or water right claims of the Tribe or the United
 States on behalf of the Tribes except as set forth in the Agreement.
 Nor shall anything in the Agreement or this Act affect the water rights or
 water right claims of any Federal agency, other than the Bureau of Indian
 Affairs, Fort Hall Indian Agency.
 (c) RESERVATION OF RIGHTS- The parties expressly reserve all rights not
 granted, recognized, or settled by the Agreement or this Act.
 (d) DISCLAIMER REGARDING OTHER AGREEMENTS- Except as expressly provided in
 this Act, nothing herein shall be considered to amend, construe, supersede,
 or preempt any State law, Federal law, Tribal law, or interstate compact
 that pertains to the Snake River or its tributaries.
SEC. 12. PROTECTION OF TRIBAL WATER RIGHTS.
 The Tribal water rights confirmed by the Final Decree shall bind and inure
 to the benefit of the Tribes and shall not be taken from them absent their
 consent and payment of just compensation.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.