 
--H.R.4151--
H.R.4151
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 1991 through 1994 to carry out
the Head Start Act, the Follow Through Act, and the Community Services Block
Grant Act; and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Augustus F. Hawkins Human
Services Reauthorization Act of 1990'.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents is as follows:
Section 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--HEAD START
Subtitle A--Amendments to the Head Start Act
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Statement of purpose and policy.
Sec. 103. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 104. Reservation of funds.
Sec. 105. Guidelines for local service delivery models; maintenance of
current services.
Sec. 106. Comprehensive Head Start report.
Sec. 107. Conditions on renewed funding of grantees.
Sec. 108. Designation of Head Start agencies.
Sec. 109. Powers and functions of Head Start agencies.
Sec. 110. Technical amendments.
Sec. 111. Administrative costs.
Sec. 112. Neutrality.
Sec. 113. Participation in Head Start programs.
Sec. 114. Authority of Secretary.
Sec. 115. Notice and hearing.
Sec. 116. Staff qualifications.
Sec. 117. Requirements applicable to the Secretary.
Sec. 118. Cooperative research.
Sec. 119. Report on status of children.
Sec. 120. Study of Head Start participants.
Sec. 121. Poverty line.
Sec. 122. Comparability of wages.
Sec. 123. Extended Head Start services.
Subtitle B--Head Start Transition Project
Sec. 131. Short title.
Sec. 132. Definitions.
Sec. 133. Head Start transition grants.
Sec. 134. Eligibility.
Sec. 135. Requirements.
Sec. 136. Application.
Sec. 137. Evaluation and report.
Sec. 138. Payments; Federal share.
Sec. 139. Coordination with Follow Through.
Sec. 140. Availability of funds.
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE FOLLOW THROUGH ACT
Sec. 201. Technical amendments.
Sec. 202. Financial assistance for Follow Through programs.
Sec. 203. Applications and funding.
Sec. 204. Program improvement.
Sec. 205. Research and evaluation contracts.
Sec. 206. Evaluation.
Sec. 207. General and administrative provisions.
Sec. 208. Participation in other educational activities.
Sec. 209. Technical amendment.
TITLE III--AMENDMENTS TO THE STATE DEPENDENT CARE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS ACT
Sec. 301. Amendments to the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act.
Sec. 302. Waiver of existing percentage setaside of allotments.
Sec. 303. Operation costs of after school care programs authorized.
Sec. 304. Report by grant recipients.
Sec. 305. Technical amendments.
TITLE IV--AMENDMENTS TO THE COMMUNITY SERVICES BLOCK GRANT ACT
Sec. 401. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 402. Eligible entities.
Sec. 403. State allocations.
Sec. 404. Applications and requirements.
Sec. 405. Discretionary authority of Secretary.
Sec. 406. Community food and nutrition.
Sec. 407. Annual report.
Sec. 408. Technical amendment.
TITLE V--AMENDMENTS TO THE CHILD DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATE SCHOLARSHIP ASSISTANCE
ACT OF 1985
Sec. 501. Adequacy of scholarships.
Sec. 502. Definitions.
Sec. 503. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI--AMENDMENTS RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENTS
ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF THE POOR
Sec. 601. Programs for special populations.
Sec. 602. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VII--AMENDMENTS TO THE LOW-INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1981
Sec. 701. Forward funding of LIHEAP.
Sec. 702. Reauthorization.
Sec. 703. State allotments.
Sec. 704. Application.
Sec. 705. Authority to use funds for weatherization.
Sec. 706. Authority to carry funds over.
Sec. 707. Leveraging incentive program.
Sec. 708. Withholding of funds.
TITLE VIII--AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS ACT
Sec. 801. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE IX--COORDINATED SERVICES FOR CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES
Sec. 901. Short title.
Sec. 902. Findings.
Sec. 903. Definitions.
Subtitle A--Establishment of Administration and Awarding of Grants for Programs
CHAPTER 1--ADMINISTRATION ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES
Sec. 915. Establishment of the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.
Sec. 916. Functions of the Commissioner.
Sec. 917. Federal agency consultations.
Sec. 918. Federal Council on Children, Youth, and Families.
Sec. 919. Administration.
CHAPTER 2--GRANTS FOR STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN, YOUTH,
AND FAMILIES
Sec. 925. Purpose.
Sec. 926. Definitions.
Sec. 927. Establishment of programs.
Sec. 928. Administration.
Sec. 929. State plan.
Sec. 930. Independent State body.
Sec. 931. State coordination of services.
Sec. 932. Supportive services.
Sec. 933. Family resource and support program grants.
Sec. 934. Authorization of appropriation and allotment.
CHAPTER 3--NATIONAL CLEARINGHOUSE
Sec. 955. Short title.
Sec. 956. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 957. Definition.
Sec. 958. Establishment of National Center on Family Resource and Support
Programs.
Sec. 959. Evaluation.
Sec. 960. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B--White House Conference on Children, Youth, and Families
Sec. 981. Short title.
Sec. 982. Findings.
Sec. 983. Authority of the President and Secretary; final report.
Sec. 984. Conference administration.
Sec. 985. Conference committees.
Sec. 986. Report of the conference.
Sec. 987. Definitions.
Sec. 988. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE X--EFFECTIVE DATES
Sec. 1001. Effective dates.
TITLE I--HEAD START
Subtitle A--Amendments to the Head Start Act
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the `Head Start Expansion and Quality
Improvement Act'.
SEC. 102. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.
Section 636(b) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831(b)) is amended by
inserting `, non-English language background,' after `migrant'.
SEC. 103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 639 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9834) is amended--
 (1) by striking `$1,198,000,000' and all that follows through `1989, and', and
 (2) by inserting after `1990' the following: `, $2,386,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, $4,273,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $5,924,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and $7,660,000,000 for fiscal year 1994'.
SEC. 104. RESERVATION OF FUNDS.
(a) RESERVATION OF FUNDS- Section 640(a) of the Head Start Act (42
U.S.C. 9835(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `and (3)' and inserting `through (5)',
 (2) in paragraph (2)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking `children, except that there shall be
 made available for use by Indian' and all that follows through `1985' and
 inserting `, except that there shall be made available for each fiscal year
 for use by Indian and migrant Head Start programs, on a nationwide basis,
 not less than the amount that was obligated for use by Indian and migrant
 Head Start programs for fiscal year 1990',
 (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking `the Trust Territory of the Pacific
 Islands' and inserting `the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
 of the Marshall Islands, Palau, the Commonwealth of',
 (C) in subparagraph (C) by striking `the amount expended' and all that
 follows through `1982' and inserting `2 percent of the amount appropriated
 for any such fiscal year',
 (D) by striking the penultimate sentence, and
 (E) in the last sentence by inserting `or paragraph (3)' after `this
 paragraph',
 (3) in paragraph (3) by striking `87 percent of the',
 (4) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (5) and (6),
 respectively,
 (5) by inserting after paragraph  (2) the following:
`(3)(A) For any fiscal year for which the amount appropriated under section
639(a) exceeds the adjusted appropriation, the Secretary shall reserve
the quality improvement funds for such fiscal year, for one or more of the
following quality improvement activities:
 `(i)(I) Not less than one-half of the amount reserved under this subparagraph,
 to improve the compensation (including benefits) of staff of Head Start
 agencies and thereby enhance recruitment and retention of such staff. The
 expenditure of funds under this clause shall be subject to section 653.
 `(II) If a Head Start agency certifies to the Secretary for such fiscal
 year that part of the funds set aside under subclause (I) to improve wages
 cannot be expended by such agency to improve wages because of the operation
 of section 653, then such agency may expend such part for any of the uses
 specified in the subparagraph (other than wages).
 `(ii) To pay transportation costs incurred by Head Start agencies to enable
 eligible children to participate in a Head Start program.
 `(iii) To employ additional Head Start staff, including staff  necessary
 to reduce the child-staff ratio and staff necessary to coordinate a Head
 Start program with other services available to children participating in
 such program and to their families.
 `(iv) To pay costs incurred by Head Start agencies to purchase insurance
 (other than employee benefits) and thereby maintain or expand Head Start
 services.
 `(v) To make nonstructural and minor structural changes, and to acquire
 and install equipment, for the purpose of improving facilities necessary
 to expand the availability, or enhance the quality, of Head Start programs.
 `(vi) To supplement amounts provided under section 640(a)(2)(C) to provide
 training necessary to improve the qualifications of the staff of the Head
 Start agencies, and to support staff training, child counseling, and other
 services necessary to address the problems of children participating in Head
 Start programs, including children from dysfunctional families, children
 who experience chronic violence in their communities, and children who
 experience substance abuse in their families.
`(B)(i) Funds reserved under subparagraph (A) for the first and second fiscal
years for which funds are so reserved shall be allotted by the Secretary
as follows:
 `(I) 80 percent of such funds shall be allotted among the States in the same
 proportion as the Secretary allots funds among the States under paragraph
 (5) for the respective fiscal year.
 `(II) 20 percent of such funds shall be allotted among the States, and used
 to make grants to Head Start agencies, at the discretion of the Secretary.
`(ii) Funds reserved under subparagraph (A) for any fiscal year subsequent to
the second fiscal year for which funds are so reserved shall be allotted by the
Secretary among the States in the same proportion as the Secretary allots funds
among the States under paragraph (5) for the respective subsequent fiscal year.
`(iii) To be expended for the activities specified in subparagraph (A)
in the first fiscal and second fiscal years for which funds are required
by such subparagraph to be reserved, funds allotted under clause (i)(I)
shall be used by the Secretary to make a grant to each Head Start agency that
receives a grant from funds allotted under paragraph (5) for such fiscal year,
in the amount that bears the same ratio to the amount allotted under clause
(i)(I) for such fiscal year for the State in which such agency is located
as the number of children participating in the Head Start program of such
agency in such fiscal year bears to the number of children participating in
all Head Start programs in such State in such fiscal year.
`(iv) To be expended for the activities specified in subparagraph (A) in each
subsequent fiscal year for which funds are required by such subparagraph to
be reserved, funds allotted under clause (ii) shall be used by the Secretary
to make grants to Head Start agencies that receive grants from funds allotted
under paragraph (5) for such fiscal year, in such amounts as the Secretary
considers to be appropriate. The aggregate amount of grants made under this
clause to Head Start agencies in a State for a fiscal year may not exceed
the amount allotted under clause (ii) for such State for such fiscal year.
`(v) If a Head Start agency certifies for such fiscal year to the Secretary
that it does not need any funds under subparagraph (A), or does not need
part of such funds it would otherwise receive under clause (iii) or (iv),
then unneeded funds shall be used by the Secretary to make grants under this
subparagraph without regard to such agency.
`(vi) Funds received under this subparagraph shall be used to supplement,
not to supplant, funds received under paragraphs (2), (4), and (5).
`(4)(A)(i) If the amount appropriated under section 639(a) for fiscal
year 1991 exceeds the adjusted appropriation, the Secretary shall reserve
$30,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, to make grants to Head Start agencies to
carry out early childhood intervention programs, to be known as `Parent-Child
Centers', within Head Start programs.
`(ii) The Secretary shall reserve $31,200,000 for fiscal year 1992, $32,448,000
for fiscal year 1993, and $33,745,920 for fiscal year 1994 to make grants
to Head Start agencies to carry out such early childhood intervention programs.
`(B)(i) Such early childhood intervention programs shall be designed--
 `(I) to enhance the development of children who are less than 3 years of
 age; and
 `(II) to strengthen the family unit by providing opportunities for increasing
 the child development skills and knowledge of their parents.
`(ii) Such early childhood intervention programs shall provide comprehensive
services (such as social, health, and educational services) to low-income
families with children who are less than 3 years of age. Such programs may
provide such services to any eligible family during any period of time and
may be center-based, home-based, or a combination of both.
`(C) Funds reserved under subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year shall be allotted
as follows:
 `(i) For Indian and migrant early childhood intervention programs, the
 Secretary shall allot the amount that represents the same proportion as such
 programs collectively received of the funds appropriated under section 639
 for fiscal year 1990.
 `(ii)(I) Subject to subclause (II) and after making the allotment under
 clause (i), the Secretary shall allot the remainder of such funds among the
 States in the same proportion as funds are allotted among the States under
 paragraph (5), except that the amount allotted for each State shall not be
 less than $200,000 or the amount that represents the same proportion of the
 funds appropriated under section 639 for fiscal year 1990 that were allotted
 for such State and used to carry out early childhood intervention programs,
 whichever is greater.
 `(II) In any fiscal year for which such remainder is insufficient to allot
 the minimum amount required by subclause (I), the Secretary shall reduce
 ratably the minimum allotment required by such subclause.
`(D) The Secretary may not make a grant under this paragraph to a Head Start
agency for a fiscal year unless--
 `(i) such agency certifies that carrying out the early childhood intervention
 program for which such grant is requested will not reduce services provided
 by such agency to children who participate in other programs provided by
 such agency under this subchapter; and
 `(ii) such agency certifies that to the maximum extent practicable, it
 will provide continuous service to children who receive services under this
 paragraph through compulsory school age, either through the early childhood
 intervention programs authorized by this paragraph or through other Head
 Start programs.
`(E) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `low-income family' means a
family that satisfies the eligibility requirements applicable under section
645(a).', and
 (6) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated by paragraph (4)--
 (A) by inserting `the Commonwealth of' before `the Northern Mariana', and
 (B) by striking `or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' and inserting
 `the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
 and Palau'.
(b) DEFINITIONS- Section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832)
is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2) by striking `the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands'
 and inserting `the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the
 Marshall Islands, Palau', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(4) The term `adjusted appropriation' means--
 `(A) with respect to the first fiscal year for which funds are required by
 section 640(a)(3)(A) to be reserved, the sum of--
 `(i) $35,000,000; and
 `(ii) 110 percent of the amount appropriated under section 639(a) for the
 preceding fiscal year, adjusted to reflect the percentage change in the
 Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (issued by the Bureau of Labor
 Statistics) occurring in the 1-year period ending immediately before the
 fiscal year with respect to which a determination is made under section
 640(a)(3)(A); and
 `(B) with respect to each subsequent fiscal year for which funds are
 required by section 640(a)(3)(A) to be reserved, the amount appropriated
 under section 639(a) for the preceding fiscal year adjusted to reflect the
 percentage change in the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (issued
 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics) occurring in the 1-year period ending
 immediately before the fiscal year with respect to which a determination
 is made under section 640(a)(3)(A).
 `(5) The term `quality improvement funds' means--
 `(A) with respect to the first fiscal year for which funds are required by
 section 640(a)(3)(A) to be reserved, 10 percent of the amount appropriated
 under section 639(a) for such fiscal year; and
 `(B) with respect to each subsequent fiscal year for which funds are required
 by section 640(a)(3)(A) to be reserved, 25 percent of the portion of the
 amount appropriated under section 639(a) for such fiscal year that exceeds
 the adjusted appropriation for such fiscal year.'.
SEC. 105. GUIDELINES FOR LOCAL SERVICE DELIVERY MODELS; MAINTENANCE OF
CURRENT SERVICES.
Section 640 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9835) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d) by striking the last sentence, and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`(f) The Secretary shall establish procedures to enable Head Start agencies
to develop locally designed or specialized service delivery models to address
local community needs.
`(g) If in any fiscal year, the amounts appropriated to carry out the program
under this subchapter exceed the amount appropriated in the prior fiscal
year, the Secretary shall, prior to using such additional funds to serve an
increased number of children, allocate such funds in a manner that makes
available the funds necessary to maintain the level of services provided
during the prior year, taking into consideration the percentage change in
the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers, as published by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics.'.
SEC. 106. COMPREHENSIVE HEAD START REPORT.
The Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9801 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 640 the following:
`COMPREHENSIVE REPORT
`SEC. 640A. (a) The Secretary shall prepare, through the Assistant Secretary
for Planning and Evaluation, and shall submit to the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and
Human Resources of the Senate--
 `(1) not later than July 1, 1993, an interim comprehensive report; and
 `(2) not later than Janaury 1, 1994, a final comprehensive report;
in accordance with this section.
`(b) The reports required by subsection (a) shall contain--
 `(1) information concerning transportation, facilities, and methods for
 identifying and locating eligible children in both urban and rural areas,
 including cost, problems encountered, and innovative solution to such
 problems;
 `(2) a description of the effect of the 1990 Decennial Census on the
 allotment of funds under this subchapter;
 `(3) a description of the extent to which Head Start programs coordinate
 their respective activities with other programs serving young children,
 including local educational agencies;
 `(4) separate descriptions of how this subchapter is administered by the
 headquarters of the Department of Health and Human Services and by its
 regional offices, including an analysis of the negotiations that occur
 between such regional offices and applicants for grants under this subchapter;
 `(5) summaries of evaluations and studies of Head Start programs, conducted
 during the period covered by such report;
 `(6) a description of the impact of expending funds under section 640(a)(3)
 on staff qualifications, staff wages, and staff turnover of Head Start
 agencies; and
 `(7) information concerning the parents of children participating in programs
 receiving Head Start funding, including the--
 `(i) employment status of such parents (including any change that occurred
 while the child was enrolled in Head Start);
 `(ii) education level of such parents;
 `(iii) the training or education that such parents received while their
 children were enrolled in Head Start programs; and
 `(iv) the impact of parents' schedules on their ability to access Head
 Start services and participate in the program.
`(c) The Secretary shall meet periodically with the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and
Human Resources of the Senate to inform the committees of the progress made
in preparing the reports required by subsection (a).'.
SEC. 107. CONDITIONS ON RENEWED FUNDING OF GRANTEES.
(a) IN GENERAL- Section 641(c) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9836(c))
is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraph (1) as subparagraph (A),
 (2) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)', and
 (3) by striking paragraph (2) and the matter following such paragraph and
 inserting the following:
 `(B) except that, if there is no agency of the type referred to in
 subparagraph (A) because of any change in the assistance furnished to
 programs for economically disadvantaged persons, the Secretary shall give
 priority in the designation of Head Start agencies to any successor agency
 that is operating a Head Start program in substantially the same manner as
 the predecessor agency that did receive funds in the fiscal year preceding
 the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
`(2) The Secretary shall conduct a full review of each designated Head Start
agency at least once during each 3-year period, and shall determine whether
each agency meets program and fiscal requirements established by the Secretary.
`(3) In carrying out a review of each Head Start agency under paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall--
 `(A) to the maximum extent practicable, carry out such review by using
 employees of the Department of Health and Human Services who are knowledgeable
 about Head Start programs;
 `(B) ensure that an employee of the Department of Health and Human Services
 who is knowledgeable about Head Start programs supervises such review at
 the site of such agency;
 `(C) measure the compliance of the programs of such agency with the
 performance standards in effect under section 651(b); and
 `(D) identify the types and conditions of facilities in which such programs
 are located.
`(4) The results of a review conducted under this subsection shall not be
sufficient alone for the purpose of determining whether to continue, or to
discontinue, providing funds to a particular Head Start agency.'.
SEC. 108. DESIGNATION OF HEAD START AGENCIES.
Section 641(d) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9836(d)) is amended by adding
at the end the following: `In selecting from among qualified applicants for
designation as a Head Start agency and subject to the preceding sentence,
the Secretary shall consider the effectiveness of each such applicant to
provide Head Start services, based on--
 `(1) any past performance of such applicant in providing services comparable
 to Head Start services, including how effectively such applicant provided
 such comparable services;
 `(2) the plan of such applicant to provide comprehensive health, nutritional,
 educational, social, and other services needed to aid participating children
 in attaining their full potential;
 `(3) the plan of such applicant to coordinate the Head Start program it
 proposes to carry out, with other preschool programs and with the educational
 programs such children will enter at the age of compulsory school attendance;
 `(4) the plan of such applicant to involve parents of children who will
 participate in the proposed Head Start program in appropriate educational
 services (in accordance with the performance standards in effect under
 section 651(b) or through referral of such parents to educational services
 available in the community) in order to aid their children to attain their
 full potential;
 `(5) the ability of such applicant to carry out the plans described in
 paragraphs (2), (3), and (4);
 `(6) other factors related to the requirements of this subchapter; and
 `(7) the plan of such applicant to meet the needs of non-English language
 children in the community.'.
SEC. 109. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF HEAD START AGENCIES.
Section 642 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9837) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b) by striking `and (4)' and inserting the following:
 `(4) involve parents of children participating in its Head Start program
 in appropriate educational services (in accordance with the performance
 standards in effect upon section 651(b) or through referral of such parents
 to educational services available in the community) in order to aid their
 children to attain their full potential; and (5)', and
 (2) in subsection (c) by striking `with other State' and all that follows
 through the end and inserting `with schools that will subsequently
 serve children in Head Start programs, the State agency responsible for
 administering section 402(g) of the Social Security Act, and other programs
 serving the children and families served by the Head Start agency to carry
 out the provisions of this subtitle.'.
SEC. 110. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
Section 643 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9838) is amended--
 (1) by striking `Governor' the first place it appears and inserting `chief
 executive officer', and
 (2) by striking `Governor' the second and third places it appears and
 inserting `such officer'.
SEC. 111. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
The first sentence of section 644(b) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9839(b))
is amended by inserting `the required' after `including'.
SEC. 112. NEUTRALITY.
Section 644 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9839) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
`(e) Funds appropriated to carry out this subchapter shall not be used to
assist, promote, or deter union organizing.'.
SEC. 113. PARTICIPATION IN HEAD START PROGRAMS.
The last sentence of section 645(a)(2) of the Head Start Act (42
U.S.C. 9840(a)(2)) is amended by striking `1990' and inserting `1994'.
SEC. 114. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.
Section 645(c) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9840(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following: `The Secretary may not issue or enforce any
rule (as defined in section 551(4) of title 5 of the United States Code)
or guideline that forbids any Head Start agency to carry out a Head Start
program in accordance with the authority described in the preceding sentence.'.
SEC. 115. NOTICE AND HEARING.
Section 646 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9841) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 646.',
 (2) in paragraph (3) by inserting `or reduced' after `terminated', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`(b) The Secretary may not prescribe any procedure that would modify the
operation of section 1303.21 or 1303.33, or any of subdivisions (a) through
(f) of section 1303.35, of title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations as
in effect on April 1, 1990.'.
SEC. 116. STAFF QUALIFICATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL- Section 648 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9843) is amended--
 (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the following:
`TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING, AND STAFF QUALIFICATIONS',
 (2) by inserting `(a)' before `The Secretary shall',
 (3) by inserting `training for personnel providing services to non-English
 language background children,' after `such personnel,', and
 (4) by adding at the end the following:
`(b)(1) The Secretary shall ensure that not later than September 30, 1994,
each Head Start classroom in a center-based program is assigned one teacher
who has--
 `(A) a child development associate (CDA) credential that is appropriate to
 the age of the children being served in center-based programs;
 `(B) a State awarded certificate for preschool teachers that meets or
 exceeds the requirements for a child development associate credential;
 `(C) an associate, baccalaureate, or advanced degree in early childhood
 education; or
 `(D) a degree in a field related to early childhood education with experience
 in teaching preschool children and a State awarded certificate to teach in
 a preschool program.
`(2) On request, the Secretary shall grant a 180-day waiver of the
applicability of paragraph (1) with respect to an individual who--
 `(A) is first employed after September 30, 1994, by a Head Start agency as
 a teacher for a Head Start classroom;
 `(B) is enrolled in a program that grants a child development credential
 (CDA); and
 `(C) will receive such credential under the terms of such program not later
 than 180 days after beginning employment as a teacher with such agency.
The Secretary may not grant more than one such waiver with respect to such
individual.'.
(b) DEFINITION- Section 637 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), as amended by
section 104(b), is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(6) The term `Head Start classroom' means a group of children supervised
 and taught by two paid staff members (a teacher and a teacher's aide or
 two teachers) and, where possible, a volunteer.'.
SEC. 117. REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE SECRETARY.
(a) IN GENERAL- Section 649 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9844) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading by striking `AND PILOT PROJECTS' and inserting
 `PILOT PROJECTS, STUDIES, AND REPORTS', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`(d) Subject to subsections (a) through (c), the Secretary shall conduct,
through grants or contracts made or entered into with qualified persons, a
study of various approaches to providing early, continuous, and comprehensive
intervention to low-income or at-risk children from birth to age 3 and to
the families of such children. Such study shall describe and assess a variety
of approaches to providing such services, including--
 `(1) programs funded under the Comprehensive Child Development Act; and
 `(2) Parent-Child Centers, home-based Head Start programs, Head Start family
 day care, and center-based Head Start (including migrant and nonmigrant
 programs), that are in compliance with the performance standards under
 section 651(b).
Such study shall assess such approaches based on their appropriateness for
specific populations of children, including those from dysfunctional families,
children of substance abusers, and children who experience chronic violence
in their communities.
`(e) The Secretary shall conduct, through grants or contracts made or entered
into with qualified persons, a study of Head Start family day care that
is in compliance with the performance standards under section 651(b). Such
study shall consider the effectiveness of providing Head Start services in
a family day care setting and assess the program characteristics that are
necessary to ensure the programs are effective.
`(f) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate a report summarizing
the results of the studies conducted under subsections (d) and (e).'.
(b) DEFINITIONS- Section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), as amended
by sections 104(b) and 116(b), is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(7) The term `Head Start family day care' means Head Start services
 provided in a private residence other than the residence of the child
 receiving such services.
 `(8) The term `home-based Head Start program' means a Head Start program
 that provides Head Start services in the private residence of the child
 receiving such services.'.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 650 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9845)
is amended--
 (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the following:
`ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESEARCH, DEMONSTRATION, PILOT PROJECTS, STUDIES, AND
REPORT CONTRACTS',
 (2) in subsection (a)(1) by striking `or pilot project' and inserting
 `pilot project, study, or report', and
 (3) in subsection (c) by inserting `reports,' after `studies,'.
SEC. 118. COOPERATIVE RESEARCH.
Section 651(c)(2) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9846(c)(2)) is amended
by adding at the end the following: `The Secretary is encouraged to provide
funds for community-based cooperative research efforts to enable Head Start
directors to conduct evaluations of their programs with the assistance of
qualified researchers not directly involved in the administration of the
program or project operation.'.
SEC. 119. REPORT ON STATUS OF CHILDREN.
Section 651 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9846) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
`(g)(1) At least once during every 2-year period, the Secretary shall
prepare and submit, to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,
a report concerning the status of children (including disabled and non-English
language background children) in Head Start programs, including the number
of children and the services being provided to such children. Such report
shall include--
 `(1) a statement for the then most recently concluded fiscal year specifying--
 `(A) the amount of funds received by Head Start agencies designated under
 section 641 to provide Head Start services in a period before such fiscal
 year; and
 `(B) the amount of funds received by Head Start agencies newly designated
 under section 641 to provide such services in such fiscal year;
 `(2) a description of the distribution of Head Start services relative to
 the distribution of children who are eligible to participate in Head Start
 programs, including geographic distribution within States;
 `(3) a statement identifying how funds expended under section 640(a)(2),
 and funds allotted under section 640(a)(3), were distributed and used at
 national, regional, and local levels;
 `(4) a statement specifying the amount of funds provided by the State,
 and by local sources, to carry out Head Start programs;
 `(5) cost per child and how such cost varies by region;
 `(6) a description of the level and nature of participation of parents in
 Head Start programs as volunteers and in other capacities;
 `(7) information concerning Head Start staff, including salaries, education,
 training, experience, and staff turnover;
 `(8) information concerning children participating in programs that receive
 Head Start funding, including information on family income, racial and
 ethnic background, disability, and receipt of benefits under part A of
 title IV of the Social Security Act;
 `(9) the use and source of funds to extend Head Start services to operate
 full-day and year round;
 `(10) using data from the evaluations conducted under section 641(c)(2)--
 `(A) a description of the extent to which programs funded under this
 subchapter comply with performance standards and regulations in effect
 under this subchapter;
 `(B) a description of the types and condition of facilities in which such
 programs are located;
 `(C) the types of organizations that receive Head Start funds under such
 programs; and
 `(D) the number of children served under each program option;
 `(11) the information contained in the documents entitled `Program Information
 Report' and `Head Start Cost Analyses System' (or any document similar to
 either), prepared with respect to Head Start programs; and
 `(12) a description of the types of services provided to children and their
 families, both on-site and through referrals, including health, mental health,
 dental care, parenting education, physicial fitness, and literacy training.
Promptly after submitting such report to the Committee on Education and Labor
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources
of the Senate, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a notice
indicating that such report is available to the public and specifying how
such report may be obtained.'.
SEC. 120. STUDY OF HEAD START PARTICIPANTS.
(a) LONGITUDINAL STUDY REQUIRED- The Head Start Act is amended by inserting
after section 651 (42 U.S.C. 9846) the following:
`SEC. 651A. LONGITUDINAL STUDY OF HEAD START PARTICIPANTS.
`(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall conduct, through grants or contracts
made or entered into with persons that have the qualifications specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b), a longitudinal study of the
effects that the participation in Head Start programs has on the development
of participants and their families and the manner in which such effects
are achieved.
`(b) ADVISORY PANEL- In carrying out the study required by subsection (a),
the Secretary shall establish an advisory panel to provide advice and guidance
to the Secretary, and to the individuals who carry out such study, concerning
the design and execution of such study. Such panel shall be composed of--
 `(1) individuals who have--
 `(A) expertise in the current operation of Head Start programs;
 `(B) professional backgrounds in child development and related fields; and
 `(C) experience in the evaluation of Head Start programs or comparable
 programs; and
 `(2) individuals who have expertise in designing and executing large-scale
 longitudinal studies.
`(c) CHILDREN AND FAMILIES TO BE STUDIED- The study required by subsection
(a) shall follow the progress of children and their families--
 `(1) who have attended Head Start programs (including Parent-Child Centers)
 that are in compliance with Head Start Performance Objectives;
 `(2) who represent specific subpopulations, including children from
 dysfunctional families; and
 `(3) who have attended Head Start programs that represent the various
 program options and that are located in both urban and rural areas.
`(d) SUBCONTRACTING- Persons selected to conduct the study required by
subsection (a) may subcontract elements of the study to other persons with the
approval of the Secretary. Such study may be carried out through a series of
several small studies focused on specific program options and subpopulations.
`(e) FOCUS- The study required under subsection (a) shall consider the degree
to which social, physical, and academic development, including grade retention,
motivation to achieve, special education placement, health (including long-
and short-term health), secondary school graduation, delinquency, substance
abuse, teenage pregnancy, literacy, college attendance, employment, and
welfare participation of children and the parenting skills, employment,
literacy, education level, motivation to achieve, and welfare participation
of parents are affected by--
 `(1) the program options selected by the Head Start program;
 `(2) the number and configuration of hours, days, and years the child
 participates in Head Start;
 `(3) the Head Start program quality, including training and experience of
 Head Start teachers and teacher aides, staff to child ratios, and group size;
 `(4) the level of parental involvement in the Head Start program;
 `(5) the supportive services provided to children and their parents through
 the Head Start program;
 `(6) the Head Start curriculum;
 `(7) the characteristics of a subsequent schooling of the child and
 family characteristics and behaviors that affect social, physical, health
 (including long- and short-term health), and academic development as such
 children move through the primary grades; and
 `(8) other factors identified by the advisory panel, including the variables
 that sustain gains as such children move through the primary grades.
`(f) COMPARISION- To the maximum extent feasible, the study required under
subsection (a) shall provide for comparisons with appropriate groups composed
of individuals who do not participate in Head Start programs.
`(g) COORDINATION- The study required under subsection (a) shall be
coordinated with the National Longitudinal Study conducted under chapter 1
that is administered by the Department of Education.
`(h) INTERIM REPORT- Not later than January 1, 1994, the Secretary shall
prepare and submit, to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,
an interim report concerning the design and progress of the study conducted
under this section, including interim results of such study.'.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 639 of the Head Start Act
(42 U.S.C. 9834) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 639.',
 (2) by inserting `(other than section 651A)' after `subchapter', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 651A,
such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1991 through 1996.'.
SEC. 121. POVERTY LINE.
(a) ISSUANCE OF POVERTY LINE- Subsection (a) of section 652 of the Head
Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9847(a)) is amended to read as follows:
`(a) The Secretary shall issue annually (or at any shorter interval the
Secretary considers to be feasible and desirable) a poverty line which, except
as provided in section 645, shall be used as a criterion of eligibility for
participation in Head Start programs.'.
(b) DEFINITION- Section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), as
amended by sections 104(b), 116(b), and 117(b), is amended by adding at the
end the following:
 `(9) The term `poverty line' means--
 `(A) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management and
 Budget) adjusted to reflect the percentage change in the Consumer Price
 Index For All Urban Consumers, issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
 occurring in the 1-year period or other interval immediately preceding the
 date such adjustment is made; or
 `(B) the poverty line (including any revision thereof) applicable to this
 subchapter for fiscal year 1990, adjusted to reflect the percentage change
 in the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers, issued by the Bureau
 of Labor Statistics, occurring in the period beginning October 1, 1989,
 and ending immediately before the date such adjustment is made;
whichever is greater.'.
(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 652 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9847)
is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (b), and
 (2) in subsection (c) by striking `(c) Revisions required by subsection
 (a) shall be made and issued' and inserting `(b) The poverty line shall be
 determined by the Secretary'.
SEC. 122. COMPARABILITY OF WAGES.
Section 653 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9848) is amended by adding at
the end the following: `The Secretary shall encourage Head Start agencies to
provide compensation according to salary scales that are based on training
and experience.'.
SEC. 123. EXTENDED HEAD START SERVICES.
 (a) DEFINITIONS.Section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832),
 as amended by sections 104(b), 116(b), 117(b), and 121(b), is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
 `(10) The term `full calendar year' means all days of the year other than
 Saturday, Sunday, and a legal public holiday.
 `(11) The term `full-working-day' means not less than 10 hours per day.'.
 (b) EXTENDED HEAD START SERVICES- Section 640 of the Head Start Act (42
 U.S.C. 9835) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(h) Each Head Start program may provide full-working-day Head Start services
 to any eligible child throughout the full calendar year.'.
Subtitle B--Head Start Transition Project
SEC. 131. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the `Head Start Transition Project Act'.
SEC. 132. DEFINITIONS.
As used in this subtitle:
 (1) DEVELOPMENTALLY APPROPRIATE CURRICULUM- The term `developmentally
 appropriate curriculum' means a curriculum that is appropriate for the
 child's age and all areas of the individual child's development, including
 educational, physical, emotional, social, cognitive, and communication.
 (2) FAMILY SERVICES COORDINATOR- The term `family services coordinator'
 means an individual who is trained to assist families in obtaining supportive
 services. Such individual may be an existing employee of the local educational
 agency or Head Start agency.
 (3) HEAD START AGENCY- The term `Head Start agency' means any agency
 designated as a Head Start agency under the Head Start Act.
 (4) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- The term `local educational agency' has the
 same meaning given such term in section 1471(12) of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965.
 (5) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Department
 of Health and Human Services.
 (6) SUPPORTIVE SERVICE- The term `supportive service' means service that
 will enhance the physical, social, emotional, and intellectual development
 of low-income children, including providing necessary support to the parents
 of such children and other family members.
SEC. 133. HEAD START TRANSITION GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL- With funds made available under section 639(c) of the Head
Start Act to carry out this subtitle, the Secretary may make demonstration
grants to Head Start agencies and local educational agencies to develop and
operate programs that assist low-income elementary school students grades
kindergarten through 3 (giving priority to students entering their first
year of elementary school) and their families in--
 (1) obtaining supportive services that build on the strength of families,
 including health, immunization, mental health, nutrition, parenting education,
 literacy, and social services (including substance abuse treatment, education,
 and prevention services); and
 (2) supporting the active involvement of parents in the education of their
 children.
(b) TERM OF GRANT- Each grant awarded under this subtitle shall be for a
period of 3 years and shall be not less than $200,000.
SEC. 134. ELIGIBILITY.
(a) HEAD START AGENCY- A Head Start agency shall be eligible for a grant
under this subtitle if such Head Start agency has formed a consortium with
one or more local educational agencies that received funds under part A of
chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
and that serves children who have been served by such Head Start agency.
(b) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- A local educational agency shall be eligible
for a grant under this subtitle if such agency receives funds under part
A of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 and has formed a consortium with one or more Head Start agencies serving
children who will enroll in any elementary school located within the school
district of such local educational agency.
(c) COOPERATING AGENCY- A nonprofit agency or institution of higher education
with experience in child development may participate in any consortium formed
under subsection (a) or (b) in developing, operating, and evaluating programs
assisted under this subtitle.
(d) FOLLOW THROUGH GRANTEES- A local educational agency that is receiving
assistance through a program under the Follow Through Act shall also be
eligible for a grant under this subtitle if such agency meets the requirements
of subsection (b).
SEC. 135. REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall award grants under this subtitle to Head
Start agencies and local educational agencies in both rural and urban areas.
(b) SPECIAL RULE- The Secretary shall award at least one grant to one eligible
applicant in each State before the Secretary may award a second grant within
any one State.
(c) CONSIDERATION- In awarding grants under this subtitle, the Secretary
shall consider--
 (1) the commitment of the Head Start agency and local educational agency
 to the program for which assistance under this subtitle is requested;
 (2) the quality of the Head Start program operated by a Head Start agency
 desiring financial assistance under this subtitle, as measured by compliance
 with Head Start program performance standards;
 (3) the proportion of low-income children in the school attendance area
 where the program assisted under this subtitle will be located;
 (4) the suitability of the proposed program for replication in other
 locations;
 (5) the quality of information and plans in the application; and
 (6) the commitment of the community to the proposed program, as evidenced
 by additional resources, in cash and in kind, available to the applicant
 to support the program.
(d) PRIORITY- The Secretary shall give priority to applicants that will operate
a program under this subtitle at a school designated for a schoolwide project
under section 1015(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
SEC. 136. APPLICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL- Each Head Start agency or local educational agency desiring
a grant under this subtitle shall submit an application to the Secretary
at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the
Secretary may reasonably require. Each such application shall include--
 (1) a description of the activities and services for which assistance
 is sought;
 (2) a description of members of the consortium established in accordance
 with section 134, including any cooperating agency;
 (3) a self-assessment of the Head Start agency's and local educational
 agency's programs to address the health, immunization, mental health,
 nutrition, parenting education, literacy, social service (including
 substance abuse treatment, education, and prevention), and educational
 needs of low-income students and their families, including the use of a
 developmentally appropriate curriculum such as a model approach under the
 Follow Through Act;
 (4) a plan for the development of a supportive services team of family
 service coordinators to--
 (A) assist families, administrators and teachers to respond to health,
 immunization, mental health, nutrition, social service and educational
 needs of students;
 (B) conduct home visits and help students and their families to obtain health,
 immunization, mental health, nutrition, parenting education, literacy,
 education (including tutoring and remedial services), and social services
 (including substance abuse treatment, education and prevention), for which
 such students and their families are eligible;
 (C) coordinate a family outreach and support program, including a plan
 for involving parents in the management of the program assisted under
 this subtitle, in cooperation with parental involvement efforts undertaken
 pursuant to the Follow Through Act, chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary
 and Secondary Education Act of 1965, the Head Start Act, part B of chapter
 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (Even
 Start), and the Education of the Handicapped Act of 1975;
 (D) assist families, administrators, and teachers in enhancing developmental
 continuity between the programs assisted under the Head Start Act and
 elementary school classes; and
 (E) prepare a plan for the transition of each child from Head Start or
 comparable programs to kindergarten, including--
 (i) a meeting of the early childhood development program teacher with the
 kindergarten teacher and the child's parents to discuss the transition of
 each child and to address any particular educational needs of such child; and
 (ii) the transfer of knowledge about the child, including the transfer (with
 parental consent) of written records from the early childhood development
 program teacher to the kindergarten teacher to become part of the school
 record of the child;
 (5) the designation of a member of the supportive services team described
 in paragraph (4) who will serve as the supervisor of such supportive
 services team;
 (6) assurances that State agencies, local agencies, and community-based
 organizations that provide supportive services to low-income students served
 by such Head Start agency or local educational agency have been consulted
 in the preparation of the plan described in paragraph (4);
 (7) assurances that State agencies, local agencies, and community-based
 organizations that provide supportive services to low-income students
 served by such Head Start agency or local educational agency will designate
 an individual who will act as a liaison to the supportive services team
 described in paragraph (4);
 (8) a description of the target population to be served by the supportive
 services team described in paragraph (4) including families previously
 served under the Head Start Act, part B of chapter 1 of title I of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (Even Start), or comparable
 early childhood development programs;
 (9) a description of the supportive services to be provided, directly or
 through referral;
 (10) a plan to ensure the smooth transition of children served under the Head
 Start Act, part B of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965 (Even Start), Education of the Handicapped Act of 1975,
 and comparable early childhood development programs to elementary schools;
 (11) assurances that, and a plan describing how, families will be involved
 in the design and operation of the program assisted under this subtitle;
 (12) a description of the Federal and non-Federal resources that will be
 used to carry out the program;
 (13) if the applicant has applied for, or is receiving, assistance through
 a program under the Follow Through Act--
 (A) a description of the activities that will be funded under this subtitle
 and the activities that will be funded with assistance provided under the
 Follow Through Act; and
 (B) a description of the manner in which activities funded under this
 subtitle and activities funded with assistance provided under the Follow
 Through Act will be coordinated within the elementary school;
 (14) assurances that the supportive services team described in paragraph
 (4) will be equipped to assist children and families with limited English
 proficiency and disabilities, if appropriate;
 (15) a plan describing how the program assisted under this subtitle will be
 sustained, with chapter 1 funding or other Federal and non-Federal funding
 sources, after the grant has expired;
 (16) program goals; and
 (17) such other information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
(b) SPECIAL RULE- Each supportive services team developed pursuant to paragraph
(4) of subsection (a) shall include at least 1 family service coordinator
for every 35 children to be served.
SEC. 137. EVALUATION AND REPORT.
(a) EVALUATION- The Secretary shall, through grants, contracts or cooperative
agreements, provide for the continuing evaluation of the programs assisted
under this subtitle in order to determine the effectiveness of such programs
in achieving stated goals, the impact of such programs on related programs,
and the implications of the design and operation of such programs for the
effective delivery of services.
(b) LOCAL EVALUATION AND INFORMATION-
 (1) REQUIREMENT- Each Head Start agency or local educational agency receiving
 a grant under this subtitle shall carry out an evaluation of the program
 assisted under this subtitle in order to determine the effectiveness of the
 program in achieving stated goals, the impact of the program on the families
 served and the community, the problems encountered in the design and operation
 of the program and ways in which such problems were addressed, and the
 impact of the program on the Head Start agency and local educational agency.
 (2) INFORMATION- Each Head Start agency or local educational agency receiving
 a grant under this subtitle shall furnish to the Secretary any information
 the Secretary shall request in order to carry out the evaluation described
 in subsection (a).
(c) REPORT- Not later than September 30, 1993, the Secretary shall,
prepare and submit, to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,
a report concerning evaluations conducted pursuant to subsections (a) and
(b), including the strengths and weaknesses in the design and operation of
programs assisted under this subtitle and the effectiveness of such programs
in achieving stated goals.
SEC. 138. PAYMENTS; FEDERAL SHARE.
(a) PAYMENTS- The Secretary shall make a grant to each Head Start agency
or local educational agency having an application approved under section
136, to pay the Federal share of the cost of the activities described in
the application.
(b) FEDERAL SHARE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Federal share shall be 80 percent of the cost of the
 activities described in the approved application.
 (2) NON-FEDERAL SHARE- The non-Federal share of such cost may be in cash
 or in kind fairly evaluated, including planned equipment or services.
(c) SUPPLEMENTATION OF FUNDING-
 (1) IN GENERAL- All Federal funds and funds paid as a part of the non-Federal
 share under this subtitle shall be used to supplement the level of State
 and local public funds expended for services assisted under this subtitle
 in the previous fiscal year.
 (2) SATISFACTION OF REQUIREMENT- The supplementation requirement of this
 subsection shall be satisfied with respect to a particular program if the
 aggregate expenditure in the program for the fiscal year in which services
 are to be provided will not be less than the aggregate expenditure in
 the program in the previous year, excluding Federal and non-Federal funds
 provided under this subtitle.
SEC. 139. COORDINATION WITH FOLLOW THROUGH.
The Secretary shall arrange with the Secretary of Education to coordinate
the programs established under this subtitle with the programs established
under the Follow Through Act to enable local educational agencies to submit
a single application for funding under both such programs, and shall, to the
extent practicable, coordinate the promulgation of regulations that apply
to such programs.
SEC. 140. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
Section 639 of the Head Start Act, as amended by section 120(b), is amended
by adding at the end the following:
 `(c)(1) If the amount appropriated under subsection (a) for fiscal year 1991
 exceeds the adjusted appropriation, the Secretary shall make available not
 less than $20,000,000 to carry out the Head Start Transition Project Act.
`(2) The Secretary shall make available not less than $20,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out the Head Start Transition
Project Act.'.
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE FOLLOW THROUGH ACT
SEC. 201. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
The Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861-9877) is amended--
 (1) by inserting after section 661 the following: `PART I--DIRECT SERVICES',
 and
 (2) in section 668--
 (A) by striking `this subchapter' each place it appears and inserting
 `part I', and
 (B) in subsection (a) by inserting `programs and' after `participating in'.
SEC. 202. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR FOLLOW THROUGH PROGRAMS.
(a) PRIORITY- Section 662(a) of the Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861(a))
is amended by adding at the end the following: `For the purpose of making
grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to any local
educational agency that requests the grant for purposes of carrying out a
Follow Through program in a school that--
 `(1) is designated as a schoolwide project under section 1015(a) of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
 `(2) has a high concentration of children described in the first sentence
 of this subsection.'.
(b) PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE- Section 662 of the Follow Through Act (42
U.S.C. 9861) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a) by inserting `quality pre-school'
 after `similar',
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in the first sentence by striking `this section shall provide such'
 and inserting `this part shall use model Follow Through approaches for
 which financial assistance is provided under section 664A and shall provide
 directly, through referral or a program established under the Head Start
 Transition Project Act, or by using any combination of these methods,',
 (B) in the second sentence by striking `projects' and inserting `programs',
 and
 (C) in the last sentence by striking `project' and inserting `program', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`(d) The Secretary may not refuse to provide financial assistance under
subsection (a) to an applicant solely because such applicant proposes to
carry out a Follow Through program during a period in which school is not
in regular session, at more than one site, or both.
`(e)(1) In making grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide
sufficient funds to enable programs to meet the requirements of subsection (c).
`(2) If the aggregate amount appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out
this subchapter exceeds $15,000,000, the amount of each such grant shall be
not less than $200,000.
`(f) Notwithstanding subsection (c), any local educational agency that
receives a grant under subsection (a) for purposes of carrying out a Follow
Through program in an elementary school that--
 `(A) receives funds under part A of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary
 and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
 `(B) is designated as a schoolwide project under section 1015(a) of such Act;
may use such grant to serve all children attending such school in kindergarten
through grade 3.'.
(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 662(c) of the Follow Through Act (42
U.S.C. 9861(c)) is amended by striking `projects' and inserting `programs'.
SEC. 203. APPLICATIONS AND FUNDING.
The Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861-9877) is amended by striking section
663 and inserting the following:
`CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS
`SEC. 663. (a) IN GENERAL- A grant under this part may be made only to
an applicant that submits an application to the Secretary containing such
information as may be required by the Secretary by rule.
`(b) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION- Each application for a grant under this
part shall--
 `(1) provide that the program for which assistance is requested will be
 administered by or under the supervison of the applicant;
 `(2) contain an assurance that the applicant will prepare, and submit to
 the Secretary, regular evaluations of and reports concerning such program;
 `(3) estimate the number of children who are eligible for Follow Through
 services in the geographical area served by such program and the approximate
 number to be served by such program;
 `(4) describe which model Follow Through approach the applicant intends to
 use, and the manner in which the applicant will implement such approach;
 `(5) provide evidence that the applicant has made a formal arrangement to
 receive technical assistance and training relative to such approach from
 an appropriate agency, institution, or organization that receives funds
 under section 664A;
 `(6) provide an assurance that the instructional program, including textbooks
 and other materials provided by the applicant, is appropriate to the ages
 and developmental needs of the children to be served by such program and
 to the model Follow Through approach selected;
 `(7) specify the manner in which the applicant will provide comprehensive
 services, including through agreements with public or private entities to
 provide, make referrals to, or coordinate the provision of such services to
 children and their families through the program established under subchapter
 B, the Head Start Transition Project Act, or another comprehensive program;
 `(8) provide for direct participation of parents, as provided in section
 662(c), and include a cerification that such application has been approved
 by a committee (established in accordance with rules issued by the Secretary)
 that represents parents of children who participate, and parents of children
 who are likely to participate, in such program;
 `(9) describe how the applicant proposes to coordinate services under this
 part with services under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965, the Bilingual Education Act, and the Education of
 the Handicapped Act of 1975;
 `(10) demonstrate that--
 `(A) the applicant has entered into a formal arrangement with local Head Start
 programs and other preschool programs for such cooperation and activities
 as are necessary to ensure an effective transition of eligible children
 entering the Follow Through program carried out by such applicant; and
 `(B) the Follow Through activities to be provided by the applicant have been
 specifically designed to coordinate with, and build on, those activities
 provided to participants in local Head Start or other similar preschool
 programs;
 `(11) describe the expected or, if possible, actual impact of such program
 on the applicant's regular school program; and
 `(12) contain--
 `(A) a certification that the applicant submitted such application to the
 State educational agency (as defined in section 1471(23) of the Elementary
 and Secondary Education Act of 1965) for a reasonable period for comment
 before submitting such application to the Secretary; and
 `(B) any comments received from such agency during such period.'.
SEC. 204. PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT.
(a) RESEARCH, EVALUATION, AND RELATED MATTERS- The Follow Through Act
(42 U.S.C. 9861-9877) is amended by striking section 664 and inserting
the following:
`Part II--Program Improvement
`RESEARCH
`SEC. 664. The Secretary may provide financial assistance, through grants
and contracts, to public and private nonprofit agencies, institutions,
and organizations to conduct research--
 `(1) to improve Follow Through approaches;
 `(2) to develop model Follow Through approaches; and
 `(3) to meet the special needs of children who are eligible to participate
 in Follow Through programs.
`TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
`SEC. 664A. (a) The Secretary shall make grants to public and private
nonprofit agencies, institutions, and organizations--
 `(1) to provide technical assistance to assist in the development,
 implementation, and expanded use of model Follow Through approaches; and
 `(2) to provide training in conjunction with the operation of Follow Through
 programs or other programs that adopt such approaches.
`(b)(1) Technical assistance with respect to a particular model Follow Through
approach may not be provided under subsection (a)(1) in more than 5 fiscal
years to a particular recipient of financial assistance under section 662(a).
`(2) In the case of a recipient of financial assistance under section 662(a)
that has received technical assistance prior to the date of enactment of
this part, the Secretary may limit the provision of technical assistance
with respect to a particular Follow Through approach under subsection (a)(1)
to 3 fiscal years.
`RESOURCE AND EXPANSION
`SEC. 664B. The Secretary may make grants to entities which operate, or
previously operated, Follow Through programs that the Secretary finds to
be effective--
 `(1) to act as Follow Through resources to develop and provide information
 on the operation of their respective programs;
 `(2) to promote the adoption of similar programs by local educational
 agencies; and
 `(3) to assist agencies, institutions, and organizations that receive funds
 under section 664A, in providing technical assistance and training.
`NATIONAL CLEARINGHOUSE
`SEC. 664C. (a) If the amount appropriated to carry out this subchapter
is not less than $30,000,000, then the Secretary shall make a grant to an
organization that represents entities referred to in sections 662, 664A,
and 664B to establish a national clearinghouse on Follow Through programs
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the clearinghouse), which
shall provide information, without charge or at such reasonable cost as the
Secretary may determine, to the public concerning--
 `(1) programs that receive financial assistance under section 662;
 `(2) model Follow Through approaches;
 `(3) the kinds of technical assistance and training available under
 section 664A;
 `(4) the procedure to obtain technical assistance and training available
 under section 664A; and
 `(5) Follow Through research and evaluations.
`(b) The Secretary shall make available to the clearinghouse all research
and evaluations that relate to Follow Through programs and for which the
Secretary provides, or has ever provided, funds.
`(c)(1) The Secretary shall promote the awareness and use of model Follow
Through approaches by--
 `(A) providing information to recipients of grants and contracts under
 section 1562 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 concerning
 programs and activities that receive assistance under this title; and
 `(B) making information concerning such programs and activities available
 to such recipients without charge.
 `(2) From amounts appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this part,
 the Secretary shall expend--
 `(A) not less than $100,000 to pay for the costs incurred by such recipients
 to disseminate information relating to programs and activities funded under
 this part; and
 `(B) not less than $300,000 to carry out subsection (a).'.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861-9877)
is amended by striking section 667.
SEC. 205. RESEARCH AND EVALUATION CONTRACTS.
Section 665 of the Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9864) is amended--
 (1) in the heading of such section by striking `, DEMONSTRATION, AND PILOT
 PROJECT' and inserting `AND EVALUATION', and
 (2) in subsection (a)(1) by striking `, demonstration, or pilot project'
 and inserting `or evaluation'.
SEC. 206. EVALUATION.
Section 666(a) of the Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9865(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking the last sentence and inserting `Such continuing evaluation
 shall measure the impact of such programs on participating parents and on
 entire schools and school districts in which such programs are carried out.',
 (2) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) The evaluation required by paragraph (1) shall include evaluations of
local educational agencies that receive Follow Through grants for use in
a school that is designated as a schoolwide project under section 1015(a)
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Such evaluation shall
compare children who only receive services under a grant under chapter 1 of
title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 with children
who receive services under such a grant and under a Follow Through grant for
the purposes of determining whether the comprehensive services provided to
the latter children through the model Follow Through approach had a positive
effect on their educational progress and overall developmental progress. To
the extent practicable, such comparison shall be made on the basis of results
of evaluations conducted under such chapter and evaluations conducted under
this subsection, and shall take into account the amount of funds provided
to the project.'.
SEC. 207. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The Follow Through Act (42
U.S.C. 9861-9877) is amended by inserting after section 666 the following:
`Part III--General and Administrative Provisions
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
`SEC. 667. (a) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
subchapter $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary
for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994.
`(b) Of the amount appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this
subchapter--
 `(1) 70 percent shall be available to carry out part I; and
 `(2) 30 percent shall be available to carry out part II.
`(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (4), financial assistance provided
under part I for a Follow Through program shall not exceed 80 percent of
the approved costs of the program assisted, except that the Secretary may
approve assistance in excess of such percentage if the Secretary determines,
in accordance with rules establishing objective criteria, that such action
is required to carry out such part.
`(2) Non-Federal contributions may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated,
including plant, equipment, and services.
`(3) The Secretary may not require non-Federal contributions in excess of
20 percent of the approved costs of the Follow Through program assisted.
`(4) Financial assistance provided under part I for a Follow Through program
carried out in an elementary school that--
 `(A) receives funds under part A of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary
 and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
 `(B) is designated as a schoolwide project under section 1015(a) of such Act;
may be expended to pay 100 percent of the approved costs of the program
assisted.
`(d) An application for assistance under this subchapter may not be approved
unless the Secretary is satisfied that the services to be provided under this
chapter by such applicant will be in addition to, and not in substitution for,
services previously provided without Federal assistance. The requirement
imposed by the preceding sentence shall be subject to such rules as the
Secretary may issue.'.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 670 of the Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861
note) is repealed.
SEC. 208. PARTICIPATION IN OTHER EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
The Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9861-9877) is amended by inserting after
section 669 the following:
`PARTICIPATION IN OTHER EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES
`SEC. 669A. (a) The Secretary shall facilitate the participation of
entities that receive funds under sections 664A and 664B in training and
technical assistance activities carried out under other Federal programs
that provide assistance to children in elementary schools, including programs
and activities carried out under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965.
`(b) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services in the coordination of the program established under this Act
with the programs established under the Head Start Transition Project Act
to enable local educational agencies to submit a single application for
funding under both such programs and shall, to the extent practicable,
coordinate the issuance of regulations governing such programs.'.
SEC. 209. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
Section 668(a) of the Follow Through Act (42 U.S.C. 9867(a)) is amended by
inserting `programs and' before `projects'.
TITLE III--AMENDMENTS TO THE STATE DEPENDENT CARE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS ACT
SEC. 301. AMENDMENTS TO THE STATE DEPENDENT CARE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS ACT.
Section 670A of the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act (42
U.S.C. 9871) is amended--
 (1) by striking `is authorized' and inserting `are authorized',
 (2) by striking `1987, 1988, 1989, and', and
 (3) by inserting after `1990' the following: `and 1991, and such sums as
 may be necessary for fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994'.
SEC. 302. WAIVER OF EXISTING PERCENTAGE SETASIDE OF ALLOTMENTS.
Section 670D(c) of the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act (42
U.S.C. 9874(c)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
 respectively,
 (2) by striking `Of' and inserting `(1) Except as provided in paragraph
 (2), of', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) For any fiscal year the Secretary may waive the percentage requirements
 specified in paragraph (1) on the request of a State if such State
 demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary--
 `(A) that the amount of funds available as a result of one of such percentage
 requirements is not needed in such fiscal year for the activities for which
 such amount is so made available; and
 `(B) the adequacy of the alternative percentages, relative to need, the
 State specifies the State will apply with respect to all of the activities
 referred to in paragraph (1) if such waiver is granted.'.
SEC. 303. OPERATION COSTS OF AFTER SCHOOL CARE PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.
(a) Use of Allotments-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 670D(a)(1) of the State Dependent Care Development
 Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9874(a)(1)) is amended by inserting `operation,'
 after `establishment,'.
 (2) OPERATION AND SITES- Section 670D(b)(1) of the State Dependent Care
 Development Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9874(b)(1)) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `operation,' after `establishment,', and
 (B) by striking `in public' and all that follows through `communities'.
 (3) PARTICIPATION OF CERTAIN CHILDREN- Section 670D(b)(1) of the State
 Dependent Care Development Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9874(b)(1)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following: `Amounts so paid to a State and used
 for the operation of such child care services shall be designed to enable
 children, whose families lack adequate financial resources, to participate
 in before or after school child care programs.'.
 (4) RESOURCE AND REFERRAL SYSTEM- Section 670D(f) of the State Dependent
 Care Development Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9871(f)) is amended by inserting
 `operate,' after `expand,'.
(b) LIMITATIONS- Section 670D(d) of the State Dependent Care Development
Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9874(d)) is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraph (1),
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (1),
 (3) by striking paragraph (3), and
 (4) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (2) and (3),
 respectively.
SEC. 304. REPORT BY GRANT RECIPIENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL- Section 670E(c) of the State Dependent Care Development
Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9875(c)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) The chief executive officer of each State shall include in such a
description of--
 `(A) the number of children who participated in before and after school
 child care programs assisted under this subchapter;
 `(B) the characteristics of the children so served including age levels,
 handicapped condition, income level of families in such programs;
 `(C) the salary level and benefits paid to employees in such child care
 programs; and
 `(D) the number of clients served in resource and referral systems assisted
 under this subchapter, and the types of assistance they requested.'.
(b) DATE OF REVISION- Subsection (c)(1) of section 670E of the State Dependent
Care Development Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9875(c)), as so redesignated by
subsection (a), is amended by striking out `September 30, 1987' and inserting
`September 30, 1991'.
SEC. 305. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
(a) USE OF ALLOTMENTS- Section 670D of the State Dependent Care Development
Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9874) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a)(1) by striking `for fiscal year
 1985 and fiscal year 1986',
 (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b)(1) by striking `for fiscal year
 1985 and fiscal year 1986',
 (3) in subsection (b)(2)--
 (A) in subparagraph (D)--
 (i) by inserting `school-age children,' after `diverse', and
 (ii) by inserting a comma after `children' the last place it appears, and
 (B) in subparagraph (F)--
 (i) by striking `Governor' and inserting `chief executive officer of the
 State', and
 (ii) by striking `the provisions of',
 (4) in subsection (d)(1) by striking `subsection (a)' and inserting
 `subsections (a) and (b)',
 (5) in subsection (f) by striking `, which prior to the date of enactment
 of this subchapter, are provided' and inserting `which are provided before
 the date of the enactment of this subchapter,', and
 (6) in subsection (g) by striking `operating activities to be carried out'
 and inserting `carrying out activities'.
(b) APPLICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES- The last sentence of section
670E(c) of the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act (42 U.S.C. 9875(c))
is amended by striking `until September 30, 1987,'.
(c) DEFINITIONS- Section 670G of the State Dependent Care Development Grants
Act (42 U.S.C. 9877), is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2)(C) by striking `a person' and inserting `an individual',
 (2) in paragraph (7) by inserting `in' after `State' the first place it
 appears, and
 (3) in paragraph (10) by striking `Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,'
 and inserting `Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall
 Islands, Palau,'.
TITLE IV--AMENDMENTS TO THE COMMUNITY SERVICES BLOCK GRANT ACT
SEC. 401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 672(b) of the Community
Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `is authorized' and all that follows through `1989, and',
 and inserting `are authorized to be appropriated',
 (2) by inserting after `1990,' the following: `$451,500,000 for fiscal year
 1991, $460,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $480,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 and $500,000,000 for fiscal year 1994', and
 (3) by inserting `(other than section 681A)' after `subtitle'.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPRORPRIATIONS FOR COMMUNITY FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS-
Section 681A(c) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9910a(c))
is amended--
 (1) by striking `each of the fiscal years 1987, 1988, 1989, and' and inserting
 `fiscal year', and
 (2) by inserting after `1990' the following: `, $10,000,000 for fiscal year
 1991, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 and $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1994'.
SEC. 402. ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.
The third sentence of section 673(1) of the Community Services Block Grant
Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `In' and inserting `If',
 (2) by striking `not presently' and inserting `is not, or ceases to be,',
 (3) by striking `Governor' and inserting `chief executive officer',
 (4) in subparagraph (C) by inserting after `new area.' the following:
 `In making a designation under this subparagraph, such chief executive
 officer shall give priority to such organization.', and
 (5) by striking `The Governor's' and inserting `Such officer's'.
SEC. 403. STATE ALLOCATIONS.
Section 674(a) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9903(a))
is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3), and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
`(2)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), if the amount appropriated
under section 672 for each fiscal year which remains after--
 `(i) the Secretary makes the apportionment required in subsection (b)(1); and
 `(ii) the Secretary determines the amount necessary for the purposes of
 section 681(c);
exceeds $345,000,000, the Secretary shall allot to each State not less than
one-half of 1 percent of the amount appropriated under section 672 for such
fiscal year.
`(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to a fiscal year if the
amount allotted under paragraph (1) to any State is less than the amount
allotted under such paragraph to such State for fiscal year 1990.
`(C) The amount allotted under subparagraph (A) to a State shall be reduced,
if necessary, so that the aggregate amount allotted to such State under such
subparagraph and paragraph (1) does not exceed 140 percent of the aggregate
amount so allotted to such State for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal
year for which a determination is made under this paragraph.'.
SEC. 404. APPLICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
(a) ASSURANCE BY STATE- Section 675(c)(11) of the Community Services Block
Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(11)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `, or reduced below the proportional share of funding
 it received in the previous fiscal year,' after `under this Act' the last
 place it appears,
 (2) by inserting `or such reduction' after `such termination', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`For purposes of making a determination with respect to a funding reduction,
the term `cause' includes--
 `(A) a statewide redistribution of funds under this subtitle to respond to--
 `(i) the results of the most recently available census or other appropriate
 data;
 `(ii) the establishment of a new eligible entity;
 `(iii) severe economic dislocation; and
 `(B) the failure of an eligible entity to comply with the terms of its
 agreement to provide services under this subtitle.'.
(b) OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMENT- Section 675(c) of the Community Services Block
Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (10) by striking `and' at the end,
 (2) in paragraph (11) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and', and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:
 `(12) in the case of a State which applied for and received a waiver from
 the Secretary under Public Law 98-139, provide assurances that funds will
 not be provided under this subtitle by such State to an organization to
 which such State made a grant under this subtitle in fiscal year 1984
 unless such organization allows, before expending such funds, low-income
 individuals to comment on the uses for which such organization proposes to
 expend such funds.'.
(c) PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF REDUCTION OF FUNDING- Section 676A of the
Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9906) is amended--
 (1) in the heading by inserting `OR REDUCTION' after `TERMINATION',
 (2) in the first sentence of subsection (a) by inserting `or reduces' after
 `terminates', and
 (3) in the first sentence of subsection (b) by inserting `or reduction'
 after `termination'.
SEC. 405. DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.
(a) PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT OF RURAL RENTAL HOUSING- Section 681(a)(2)(D)
of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9910(a)(2)(D)) is
amended by striking `rural housing and community facilities development'
and inserting `the planning and development of rural housing (including
rental housing for low-income individuals) and community facilities'.
(b) ACTIVITIES FOR LOW-INCOME YOUTH- Section 681 of the Community Services
Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9910) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2)(F) by striking `recreational activities' and
 inserting `instructional activities described in subsection (b)',
 (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d),
 respectively, and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
`(b) Any instructional activity carried out under subsection (a)(2)(F) shall
be carried out on the campus of an institution of higher education (as defined
in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965) and shall include--
 `(1) access to the facilities and resources of such institution;
 `(2) an initial medical examination and follow-up referral or treatment,
 without charge, for youth during their participation in such activity;
 `(3) at least one nutritious meal daily, without charge, for participating
 youth during each day of participation;
 `(4) high quality instruction in a variety of sports (that shall include
 swimming and that may include dance and any other high quality recreational
 activity) provided by coaches and teachers from institutions of higher
 education and from elementary and secondary schools (as defined in sections
 1471(8) and 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
 1965); and
 `(5) enrichment instruction and information on matters relating to the
 well-being of youth, such as educational opportunities and study practices,
 the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse, health and nutrition, career
 opportunities, and job responsibilities.'.
SEC. 406. COMMUNITY FOOD AND NUTRITION.
(a) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 681A(a) of the Community Services Block
Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9910a) is amended by striking `local, and statewide'
and inserting `local, Statewide, and national'.
(b) AMOUNT OF GRANTS- Section 681A of the Community Services Block Grant Act
(42 U.S.C. 9910a) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (b),
 (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
`(b)(1) Of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this section,
the Secretary shall allot funds for grants under subsection (a) as follows:
 `(A) From 60 percent of such amount (but not to exceed $3,600,000), the
 Secretary shall allot for grants to eligible agencies for statewide programs
 in each State the amount that bears the same ratio to 60 percent of the
 amount appropriated for such fiscal year as the low-income and unemployed
 population of such State bear to the low-income and unemployed populations
 of all the States.
 `(B) From 40 percent of such amount (but not to exceed $2,400,000), the
 Secretary shall allot for grants on a competitive basis to eligible agencies
 for local and statewide programs.
`(2) Any amounts appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this section
in excess of $6,000,000 shall be allotted as follows:
 `(A) The Secretary shall use 40 percent of such excess to make allotments
 for grants under subsection (a) to eligible agencies for statewide programs
 in each State in an aggregate amount that bears the same ratio to 40 percent
 of such excess as the low-income and unemployed populations of such State
 bears to the low-income and unemployed populations of all States.
 `(B) The Secretary shall use 40 percent of such excess to award grants
 under subsection (a) on a competitive basis to eligible agencies for local
 and statewide programs.
 `(C) The Secretary shall use the remaining 20 percent of such excess
 to award grants under subsection (a) on a competitive basis to eligible
 agencies for nationwide programs, including programs benefiting Native
 Americans and migrant farm workers. In any fiscal year, the Secretary may
 not make grants under this subparagraph to a particular eligible agency in
 an aggregate amount exceeding $300,000.
`(3) For purposes of paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), an eligible agency shall
demonstrate that the proposed program is statewide in scope and represents
a comprehensive and coordinated effort to alleviate hunger within the State.
`(4) From the amounts allocated under paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), the
minimum total allotment for each State for each fiscal year shall be--
 `(A) $15,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is
 not less than $7,000,000 but less than $10,000,000;
 `(B) $20,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is
 not less than $10,000,000 but less than $15,000,000; or
 `(C) $30,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is
 not less than $15,000,000.
For purposes of this paragraph, the term `State' does not include Guam,
American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
`(5) From funds allotted under paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B) in any fiscal
year, the Secretary may not make grants under subsection (a) to an eligible
agency in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000.'.
(c) REPORTS- Section 681A of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42
U.S.C. 9910a) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d), and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
`(c) For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the
Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report concerning
the grants awarded under this section. Such report shall include--
 `(1) a list of grantees;
 `(2) the amount of funding awarded to each grantee; and
 `(3) a summary of the activities performed by grantees with funds awarded
 under this section and a description of the manner in which such activities
 meet the objectives described in subsection (a).'.
SEC. 407. ANNUAL REPORT.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED- The Community Services Block Grant Act (42
U.S.C. 9901-9912) is amended by striking section 682 and inserting the
following:
`ANNUAL REPORT
`SEC. 682. (a)(1) For each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1991,
the Secretary shall, by contract with an entity that is knowledgeable about
programs and projects assisted under this subtitle, prepare a report containing
the following information:
 `(A) The identity of each eligible entity, agency, organization, and person
 that receives, directly or indirectly, funds to carry out this subtitle in
 such fiscal year.
 `(B) With respect to each particular purpose or activity referred to in
 section 675(c)(1)--
 `(i) the aggregate amount of such funds expended in such fiscal year to
 achieve such purpose or carry out such activity; and
 `(ii) the number of individuals who directly benefited from the amount
 so expended.
`(2) For any fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1991, the Secretary
may, by contract, include in such report any additional information the
Secretary considers to be appropriate to carry out this subtitle, except that
the Secretary may not require a State to provide such additional information
until the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date the Secretary
notifies such State that such additional information will be required to be
provided by such State.
`(3) The Secretary may not carry out this subsection by entering into a
contract with any State, eligible entity, agency, organization, or person
that receives, directly or indirectly, funds to carry out this subtitle.
`(b) Not later than 180 days after the end of the fiscal year for which
a report is required by subsection (a) to be prepared, the Secretary
shall transmit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate--
 `(1) such report in the form in which it was received by the Secretary; and
 `(2) any comments the Secretary may have with respect to such report.
`(c) Of the funds made available under section 681(d), not more than $250,000
shall be available to carry out this section.'.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 681(d) of the Community Services Block
Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9910), as so redesignated by section 405(b)(2), is
amended by inserting `, section 682,' after `this section'.
SEC. 408. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
Section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))
is amended by striking `for all Urban' and inserting `For All Urban'.
TITLE V--AMENDMENTS TO THE CHILD DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATE SCHOLARSHIP ASSISTANCE
ACT OF 1985
SEC. 501. ADEQUACY OF SCHOLARSHIPS.
(a) TRAINING ASSISTANCE- Section 603(b)(1)(C) of the Child Development
Associate Scholarship Assistance Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 10902(b)(1)(C)) is
amended by inserting `(including, at the option of the State, any training
necessary for credentialing)' after `credentialing'.
(b) LIMITATION- Section 603(b) of the Child Development Associate Scholarship
Assistance Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 10902(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(C) by striking `and' at the end,
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3), and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
 `(2) not more than 35 percent of the funds received under this title by
 a State may be used to provide scholarship assistance under paragraph (1)
 to cover the cost of training described in paragraph (1)(C); and'.
SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.
Section 604 of the Child Development Associate Scholarship Assistance Act
of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 10903) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `poverty line, as defined in section 673(2)
 of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))' and inserting
 `130 percent of the lower living standard income level',
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively, and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
 `(2) the term `lower living standard income level' means that income level
 (adjusted for regional, metropolitan, urban, and rural differences and
 family size) determined annually by the Secretary of Labor and based on
 the most recent lower living family budget issued by the Secretary of Labor;'.
SEC. 503. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 606 of the Child Development Associate Scholarship Assistance Act
of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 10904) is amended--
 (1) by striking `is authorized' and inserting `are authorized',
 (2) by striking `each of the fiscal years 1987, 1988, and 1989, and' and
 inserting `fiscal year', and
 (3) by inserting after `1990' the following: `, $3,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1992, 1993,
 and 1994'.
TITLE VI--AMENDMENTS RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION PARTNERSHIP AGREE- MENTS
ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF THE POOR
SEC. 601. PROGRAMS FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS.
Section 408 of the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9910b)
is amended--
 (1) in subsection (e)--
 (A) in paragraph (2) by striking `subsection (c)' and inserting `subsection
 (d)', and
 (B) in paragraph (4) by striking `subsection (d)(2)' each place it appears
 and inserting `subsection (e)(2)',
 (2) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) as subsections
 (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively, and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
`(c) PROGRAMS DIRECTED TO SPECIAL POPULATIONS- (1) In addition to the
grant programs described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall make grants
to eligible entities for the purpose of demonstrating new and innovative
approaches to addressing the problems of, and providing opportunities for
leadership development, community involvement, and educational success
to, disadvantaged persons between the ages of 14 and 25 from populations
experiencing conditions such as a high poverty rate, high unemployment,
high dropout rate, low labor force participation, low enrollment in college
or participation in other post high school training classes, high incidence
of involvement in violence, and a high rate of incarceration. Services
provided through approaches funded by such grants may include assessment
and development of employability plans, remedial education, motivational
activities, life skills instruction, community service, mentoring, access
to information on available financial aid, campus visits, career education,
cultural enrichment, and employment training, placement, and follow-up.
`(2) Such grants may be made only with respect to applications that--
 `(A) identify and describe the population to be served, the problems to be
 addressed, the overall approach and methods of outreach and recruitment to
 be used, and the services to be provided;
 `(B) describe how the approach to be used differs from other approaches
 used for the population to be served by the project;
 `(C) describe the objectives of the project and contain a plan for measuring
 progress toward meeting those objectives; and
 `(D) contain assurances that the grantee will report on the progress
 and results of the demonstration at such times and in such manner as the
 Secretary shall require.
`(3) Notwithstanding subsection (b), such grants shall not exceed 80 percent
of the cost of such programs.
`(4) Such grants shall be made annually on such terms and conditions as the
Secretary shall specify to eligible entities that serve the populations
described in paragraph (1) and that are located within those areas where
such populations are concentrated.'.
SEC. 602. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 408(h) of the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 9910b(g)), as so redesignated by section 601, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(h)',
 (2) by striking `$5,000,000' and all that follows through `1990', and
 inserting `$10,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994',
 (3) by inserting `(other than subsection (c))' before the period, and
 (4) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year
1991 and such sums as may be necessary in each of the fiscal years 1992
through 1994, to carry out subsection (c).'.
TITLE VII--AMENDMENTS TO THE LOW-INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1981
SEC. 701. FORWARD FUNDING OF LIHEAP.
Section 2602 of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8621) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(c)(1) In fiscal year 1993 and each fiscal year thereafter, amounts
appropriated under this section for any fiscal year for programs and activities
under this Act shall be made available for obligation only on the basis of
a program year. The program year shall begin on July 1 of the fiscal year
for which the appropriation is made.
`(2) Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1993 shall be available both to
fund activities for the period between October 1, 1992, and July 1, 1993,
and for the program year beginning July 1, 1993.
`(3) There are authorized to be appropriated such additional sums as may be
necessary for the transition to carry out this subsection.'.
SEC. 702. REAUTHORIZATION.
Section 2602(b) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8621(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `$2,050,000,000' and all that follows through `1989, and', and
 (2) by inserting after `1990' the following: `, $2,150,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, $2,230,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994. The authorizations
 of appropriations contained in this subsection are subject to the program
 year provisions of subsection (c).'.
SEC. 703. STATE ALLOTMENTS.
Section 2604(f) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8623(f)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as subparagraphs (A),
 (B), and (C), respectively,
 (2) by inserting `(1)' after `(f)',
 (3) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so redesignated by paragraph
 (1), by striking `up to 10 percent' and inserting `in accordance with
 paragraph (2) a percentage',
 (4) in the matter following subparagraph (C), as so redesignated by paragraph
 (1)--
 (A) by striking `any' the first place it appears and inserting `a', and
 (B) by striking `paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)' and inserting `subparagraphs
 (A), (B), and (C)', and
 (5) by adding at the end the following:
`(2)(A) Not to exceed 10 percent of the funds payable to a State under this
section for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1993 may be transferred
under paragraph (1).
`(B) Beginning in fiscal year 1994, no funds payable to a State under this
section shall be transferred under paragraph (1).'.
SEC. 704. APPLICATION.
(a) CERTIFICATIONS- Section 2605(b) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance
Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8624(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (12) by inserting `timely and meaningful' after `provide
 for',
 (2) in paragraph (13) by striking `and' at the end,
 (3) in paragraph (14) by striking the period and inserting `; and', and
 (4) by adding at the end the following:
 `(15) beginning in fiscal year 1992, provide, in addition to such services
 as may be offered by State Departments of Public Welfare at the local level,
 outreach and intake functions for crisis situations and heating and cooling
 assistance that is administered by additional State and local governmental
 entities or community-based organizations (such as community action agencies,
 area agencies on aging, and not-for-profit neighborhood-based organizations),
 and in States where such organizations do not administer intake functions
 as of September 30, 1991, preference in awarding grants or contracts for
 intake services shall be provided to those agencies that administer the
 low-income weatherization or energy crisis intervention programs.'.
(b) STATE PLAN- Section 2605(c)(2) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act
of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8624(c)(2)) is amended by inserting `timely and meaningful'
after `will facilitate'.
SEC. 705. AUTHORITY TO USE FUNDS FOR WEATHERIZATION.
Section 2605(k) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8624(k)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
 (2) by striking `Not' and inserting `(1) Except as provided in paragraph
 (2), not', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
`(2)(A) If a State receives a waiver granted under subparagraph (B) for a
fiscal year, the State may use not more than the greater of 25 percent of--
 `(i) the funds allotted to a State under this title for such fiscal year; or
 `(ii) the funds available to such State under this title for such fiscal year;
for residential weatherization or other energy-related home repair for
low-income households.
`(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Secretary may grant a waiver
to a State for a fiscal year if the State submits a written request to the
Secretary after March 31 of such fiscal year and if the Secretary determines,
after reviewing such request and any public comments, that--
 `(i)(I) the number of households in the State that will receive benefits,
 other than weatherization and energy-related home repair, under this title
 in such fiscal year will not be fewer than the number of households in the
 State that received benefits, other than weatherization and energy-related
 home repair, under this title in the preceding fiscal year;
 `(II) the aggregate amounts of benefits that will be received under this
 title by all households in the State in such fiscal year will not be less
 than the aggregate amount of such benefits that were received under this
 title by all households in the State in the preceding fiscal year; and
 `(III) such weatherization activities have been demonstrated to produce
 measurable savings in energy expenditures by low-income households; or
 `(ii) in accordance with rules issued by the Secretary, the State demonstrates
 good cause for failing to satisfy the requirements specified in clause (i).'.
SEC. 706. AUTHORITY TO CARRY FUNDS OVER.
Section 2607(b)(2)(B) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981
(42 U.S.C. 8626(b)(2)(B)) is amended by striking `15 percent' and inserting
`10 percent'.
SEC. 707. LEVERAGING INCENTIVE PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8621-8629) is amended by inserting after section 2607 the following:
`INCENTIVE PROGRAM FOR LEVERAGING NON-FEDERAL RESOURCES
`SEC. 2607A. (a) Beginning in fiscal year 1992, the Secretary may allocate
amounts appropriated under section 2602(d) to provide supplementary funds
to States that have acquired non-Federal leveraged resources for the program
established under this title.
`(b) For purposes of this section, the term `leveraged resources' means the
benefits made available to the low-income home energy assistance program of
the State, or to federally qualified low-income households, that--
 `(1) represent a net addition to the total energy resources available to
 State and federally qualified households in excess of the amount of such
 resources that could be acquired by such households through the purchase
 of energy at commonly available household rates; and
 `(2)(A) result from the acquisition or development by the State program
 of quantifiable benefits that are obtained from energy vendors through
 negotiation, regulation or competitive bid; or
 `(B) are appropriated or mandated by the State for distribution--
 `(i) through the State program; or
 `(ii) under the plan referred to in section 2605(c)(1)(A) to federally
 qualified low-income households and such benefits are determined by the
 Secretary to be integrated with the State program.
`(c)(1) Distribution of amounts made available under this section shall be
based on a formula developed by the Secretary that is designed to take into
account the success in leveraging existing appropriations in the preceding
fiscal year as measured under subsection (d). Such formula shall take into
account the size of the allocation of the State under this title and the
ratio of leveraged resources to such allocation.
`(2) A State may expend funds allocated under this title as are necessary,
not to exceed .0008 percent of such allocation or $35,000 each fiscal year,
whichever is greater, to identify, develop, and demonstrate leveraging
programs. Funds allocated under this section shall only be used for increasing
or maintaining benefits to households.
`(d) Each State shall quantify the dollar value of leveraged resources
received or acquired by such State under this section by using the best
available data to calculate such leveraged resources less the sum of any
costs incurred by the State to leverage such resources and any cost imposed
on the federally eligible low-income households in such State.
`(e) Not later than July 31, of each year, each State shall prepare and
submit, to the Secretary, a report that quantifies the leveraged resources
of such State in order to qualify for assistance under this section for the
following fiscal year.
`(f) The Secretary shall determine the share of each State of the amounts
made available under this section based on the formula described in subsection
(c) and the State reports. The Secretary shall promulgate regulations for the
calculation of the leveraged resources of the State and for the submission of
supporting documentation. The Secretary may request any documentation that
the Secretary determines necessary for the verification of the application
of the State for assistance under this section.'.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 2602 of the Low-Income Home
Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621), as amended by section 701,
is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(other than section 2607A)' after `title', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`(d) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 2607A,
$25,000,000 in fiscal year 1992, and $50,000,000 in each of the fiscal years
1993 and 1994.'.
SEC. 708. WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.
Section 2608(a)(2) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42
U.S.C. 8626(a)(2)) is amended by striking `in an expeditious and speedy manner
to' and inserting `in writing in no more than 60 days to matters raised in'.
TITLE VIII--AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS ACT
SEC. 801. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 670T(a) of the Comprehensive Child Development Act (42 U.S.C. 9887)
is amended by striking `appropriated' and all that follows through `1993',
and inserting `appropriated, $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991,
1992, 1993, and 1994'.
TITLE IX--COORDINATED SERVICES FOR CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES
SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the `Claude Pepper Young Americans Act of 1990'.
SEC. 902. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that--
 (1) children and youth are inherently the most valuable resource of the
 United States;
 (2) the welfare, protection, healthy development, and positive role of
 children and youth in society are essential to the United States;
 (3) children and youth deserve love, respect, and guidance, as well as
 good health, shelter, food, education, productive employment opportunities,
 and preparation for responsible participation in community life;
 (4) children and youth have increasing opportunities to participate in the
 decisions that affect their lives;
 (5) the family is the primary caregiver and source of social learning and
 must be supported and strengthened;
 (6) when a family is unable to ensure the satisfaction of basic needs
 of children and youth it is the responsibility of society to assist such
 family; and
 (7) it is the joint and several responsibility of the Federal Government,
 each State, and the political subdivisions of each State to assist children
 and youth to secure, to the maximum extent practicable, equal opportunity
 to full and free access to--
 (A) the best possible physical and mental health;
 (B) adequate and safe physical shelter;
 (C) a high level of educational opportunity;
 (D) effective training, apprenticeships, opportunities for community service,
 and productive employment and participation in decisions affecting their
 lives;
 (E) a wide range of civic, cultural, and recreational activities that
 recognize young Americans as resources and promote self-esteem and a stake
 in the communities of such Americans; and
 (F) comprehensive community services that are efficient, coordinated,
 readily available, and involve families of young individuals.
SEC. 903. DEFINITIONS.
As used in this title:
 (1) COMMISSIONER- The term `Commissioner' means the Commissioner of the
 Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, as established under
 section 915.
 (2) COUNCIL- The term `Council' means the Federal Council on Children,
 Youth, and Families, as established under section 918(a).
 (3) NONPROFIT- The term `nonprofit', as applied to any agency, institution,
 or organization, means an agency, institution, or organization that is,
 or is owned and operated by, one or more corporations or associations,
 no part of the net earnings of which may lawfully inure to the benefit of
 any private shareholder or individual.
 (4) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services.
 (5) STATE- The term `State' includes the District of Columbia, the Virgin
 Islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern
 Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
 (6) YOUNG INDIVIDUAL- The term `young individual' means any child or youth
 from birth to 21 years of age.
Subtitle A--Establishment of Administration and Awarding of Grants for Programs
CHAPTER 1--ADMINISTRATION ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES
SEC. 915. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ADMINISTRATION ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES.
(a) IN GENERAL- There is established within the Department of Health and
Human Services an Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.
(b) COMMISSIONER-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, as
 established under subsection (a), shall be headed by a Commissioner on
 Children, Youth, and Families.
 (B) COMPENSATION- Section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, is amended
 by adding at the end thereof the following new item:
 `Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.'.
 (2) APPOINTMENT- The President, by and with the advice and consent of the
 Senate, shall appoint the Commissioner.
SEC. 916. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER.
(a) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall--
 (1) serve as the effective and visible advocate for children, youth, and
 families within the Department of Health and Human Services and with other
 departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the Federal Government by
 maintaining active review and commenting responsibilities, as appropriate,
 concerning Federal policies affecting young individuals, and the families
 of young individuals;
 (2) collect and disseminate information related to the problems of young
 individuals and the families of such individuals;
 (3) assist the Secretary in appropriate matters pertaining to young
 individuals, and the families of such individuals;
 (4) administer the grants authorized under this subtitle;
 (5) develop plans and conduct research in the field of young individuals,
 and the families of such individuals;
 (6) assist, to the maximum extent practicable, in the establishment and
 implementation of programs designed to meet the needs of young individuals
 for supportive services including--
 (A) health and mental health services;
 (B) housing and shelter assistance;
 (C) education and training services;
 (D) protective services;
 (E) foster care;
 (F) teen parenting support;
 (G) child care;
 (H) family support and preservation;
 (I) teen pregnancy prevention and counseling;
 (J) counseling on the effects of violence in the communities of such
 individuals and their families;
 (K) recreational and volunteer opportunities; and
 (L) comprehensive early childhood development;
 (7) provide technical assistance and consultation to States and the political
 subdivisions of such States with respect to programs for young individuals;
 (8) prepare, publish, and disseminate educational materials concerning the
 welfare of young individuals;
 (9) gather statistics concerning young individuals, and the families of
 such individuals, that other Federal agencies are not collecting;
 (10) to the maximum extent practicable coordinate activities carried out or
 assisted by all departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the Federal
 Government with respect to the collection, preparation, and dissemination
 of information relevant to young individuals and the families of such
 individuals;
 (11) stimulate more effective uses of existing resources and available
 services for young individuals and the families of such individuals;
 (12) develop basic policies and set priorities with respect to the development
 and operation of programs and activities conducted under this title;
 (13) convene conferences of authorities and officials of organizations,
 including Federal, State, and local agencies, and nonprofit private
 organizations, of programs for children, youth and their families for the
 development and implementation of policies related to the priorities and
 purposes of this title, including topics such as the establishment of a
 nationwide network of comprehensive, coordinated services and opportunities
 for such individuals;
 (14) conduct periodic evaluations of the programs and activities related
 to the purposes of this title; and
 (15) develop, in coordination with other agencies, methods to ensure adequate
 training for personnel concerning children, youth and families and to ensure
 the adequate dissemination of such information to appropriate State and
 community agencies.
(b) ENCOURAGEMENT OF VOLUNTEERISM- In executing the duties and functions of
the Administration under this subtitle and in carrying out the programs and
activities authorized under this title, the Commissioner, in consultation with
the Director of the ACTION Agency, shall take necessary steps to coordinate
with and seek the advice of voluntary agencies and organizations that provide
services related to the purposes of this title.
SEC. 917. FEDERAL AGENCY CONSULTATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall consult and cooperate with the heads
of all appropriate Federal agencies or departments administering programs
or services that are substantially related to the purposes of this title.
(b) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENTS- To the extent practicable, the Commissioner shall
facilitate cooperation through the entering into of interagency agreements.
SEC. 918, FEDERAL COUNCIL ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a Federal Council on Children, Youth,
and Families.
(b) NUMBER OF MEMBERS- The Council shall be composed of 18 members to be
appointed in accordance with subsection (d).
(c) TERM OF MEMBERSHIP- Each member of the Council shall serve for a 3-year
term without regard to title 5, United States Code.
(d) Appointment of Members-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Council shall be composed of--
 (A) six members who posess such skills and qualifications so as to be
 representative of--
 (i) rural and urban populations; and
 (ii) national organizations with an interest in young individuals, families,
 early childhood development, elementary and secondary education, business,
 labor, minorities, and the general public;
 (B) six members who are representatives of public, State or local agencies
 that serve children, youth and their families and include representatives
 of child welfare and child mental health agencies; and
 (C) six members who are cabinet-level representatives of Federal agencies that
 have responsibility for programs relating to children, youth and families.
 (2) AGE OF MEMBERS- At least one of the individuals appointed to the Council
 under paragraph (1)(A) shall be under the age of 21 at the time of such
 appointment.
 (3) APPOINTING AUTHORITY- Of the members of the Council who are appointed
 under paragraph (1)--
 (A) six of the members described under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be
 appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate on the recommendation
 of the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate;
 (B) six of the members described under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be
 appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives on the recommendation
 of the Majority and Minority Leaders of the House of Representatives; and
 (C) the members described under subparagraph (C) shall be appointed by
 the President.
(e) VACANCY-
 (1) FILLING VACANCY- A vacancy on the Council shall be filled in the same
 manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (2) POWERS OF BOARD- A vacancy on the Council shall not affect the powers
 of the Council.
 (3) TERM OF APPOINTMENT- A member of the Council who is appointed to fill
 a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which the
 predecessor of such member was appointed shall be appointed only for the
 remainder of such term.
(f) REAPPOINTMENT- Each member of the Council shall be eligible for
reappointment to the Council.
(g) EXPIRATION OF TERM- Each member of the Council may serve after the
expiration of the term of membership until the successor of such member has
taken office.
(h) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member of the Council, while serving on business of
the Council away from the home or regular place of business of such member,
may be allowed subsistence in the same manner as the expenses authorized by
section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for individuals in the Government
service employed intermittently.
(i) CHAIRPERSON- The President shall designate the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to serve as the Chairperson of the Council. In the event that
the Secretary chooses to designate the functions of Chairperson under this
subsection, such designation may only be made to the Commissioner.
(j) MEETINGS- Not less than once during each 6-month period, the Chairperson
of the Council shall call a meeting of the Council.
(k) DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL- The Council shall--
 (1) advise and assist the President on matters relating to the special
 needs of young individuals;
 (2) review, evaluate, and inventory on a continuing basis Federal policies,
 programs and other activities affecting young individuals that are conducted
 or assisted by all Federal departments and agencies for the purpose
 of appraising the value and the impact of such policies, programs, and
 activities on the lives of young individuals, and of identifying duplication
 of services for young individuals and the families of such individuals;
 (3) make recommendations to the President, the Secretary, the Commissioner,
 the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate concerning changes in
 such policies and programs that can streamline services, reduce duplication
 of services and encourage the coordination of services provided to young
 individuals and the families of such individuals at the State and local
 level; and
 (4) provide public forums, including public hearings, conferences, workshops,
 and other meetings, for discussing and publicizing the problems and needs
 of young individuals and obtaining information relating to such individuals.
(l) STAFF- The Chairperson shall appoint staff personnel to assist the
Chairperson in carrying out the duties required under subsection (k).
(m) INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE- The head of each Federal department and
agency shall make available to the Chairperson such information and other
assistance as the Chairperson may require to carry out the duties required
under subsection (k).
(n) Reports-
 (1) SUBMISSION TO THE PRESIDENT- In fiscal year 1992 and each fiscal year
 thereafter, the Chairperson shall prepare and submit--
 (A) interim reports as the Chairperson considers to be appropriate; and
 (B) an annual report of the findings and recommendations of the Council
 concerning the matters described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (k);
to the President not later than March 31 of each year.
 (2) REVIEW AND SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS-
 (A) COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS- The President may make comments and
 recommendations concerning reports submitted under paragraph (1).
 (B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS- The President shall submit such comments,
 recommendations, and reports to the Committee on Education and Labor of the
 House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of
 the Senate.
(o) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $200,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1994.
(p) TERMINATION- The Council shall terminate on September 30, 1995.
SEC. 919. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER- In carrying out this subtitle, the Commissioner
is authorized to--
 (1) provide consultative services, technical assistance, and short-term
 training to the independent State bodies;
 (2) conduct research and demonstrations;
 (3) collect, prepare, publish, and disseminate special educational or
 informational materials, including reports of the projects for which funds
 are provided under this subtitle;
 (4) provide staff and other technical assistance to the Council;
 (5) evaluate the effectiveness of programs authorized under this subtitle
 and periodically publish analyses of the results of such evaluations; and
 (6) not later than 180 days after the end of each fiscal year, prepare and
 submit, to the President and the chairman of the Committee on Education and
 Labor of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on
 Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report concerning the activities
 carried out under this subtitle and concerning such other activities as
 the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b) Utilization of Services and Facilities-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to agreements made between the Commissioner and the
 head of such agency or organization, in carrying out the duties referred to
 in subsection (a) the Commissioner may utilize the services and facilities
 of any agency of the Federal Government and of any other public or nonprofit
 agency or organizations.
 (2) PAYMENT- The Commissioner may pay for such services and facilities,
 in advance or by way of reimbursement, as may be provided in such agreement.
(c) RESERVATION OF FUNDS- Of the aggregate amount appropriated to carry out
this title in any fiscal year, the Secretary may reserve not more than 10
percent for salaries and expenses of the Administration on Children, Youth,
and Families related to the administration of this title.
CHAPTER 2--GRANTS FOR STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN, YOUTH,
AND FAMILIES
SEC. 925. PURPOSE.
It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage and assist State and local
agencies to coordinate resources, reduce barriers to services, and develop
new capacities to ensure that State and community services designed to serve
children, youth, and families are more effective and comprehensive.
SEC. 926. DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter:
 (1) COMMUNITY REFERRAL SERVICES- The term `community referral services'
 means services to assist families in obtaining community resources, including
 health care, mental health care, employability development and job training,
 and other social services.
 (2) CORE SERVICES- The term `core services' means--
 (A) educational and support services provided to assist parents in
 acquiring parenting skills, learning about child development, and responding
 appropriately to the behavior of their children; and
 (B) the early developmental screening of children to assess any needs of
 such children and to identify specific types of support that may be provided;
 (C) outreach services;
 (D) community referral services; and
 (E) follow up services.
 (3) FOLLOW UP SERVICES- The term `follow up services' means services provided
 to ensure that necessary services are received by families and are effective
 in meeting their needs.
 (4) INDEPENDENT STATE BODY- The term `independent State body' means the
 entity established under section 930.
 (5) LEAD AGENCY- The term `lead agency' means an existing State agency, or
 other public or nonprofit private entity designated by the chief executive
 officer of the State as the agency responsible for the development and
 implementation of local family resource and support programs. Such agency
 shall have demonstrated ability to work with other State and community based
 agencies, to provide training and technical assistance, and shall also have
 a commitment to parental participation in the design and administration of
 family resource and support programs.
 (6) OTHER SERVICES- The term `other services' and `other support services'
 includes--
 (A) child care, early childhood development and intervention programs;
 (B) employability development services (including skill training);
 (C) educational services, such as scholastic tutoring, literacy training,
 and General Educational Degree (GED) services;
 (D) nutritional education;
 (E) life management skills training;
 (F) peer counseling and crisis intervention, family violence counseling
 and referrals for such services;
 (G) referral for substance abuse counseling and treatment referral; and
 (H) referral for primary health and mental health services.
 (7) OUTREACH SERVICES- The term `outreach services' means services provided
 to ensure (through home visits or other methods) that parents are aware of
 and able to participate in family resource and support program activities.
SEC. 927. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAMS.
The Commissioner shall make grants--
 (1) in each State under section 931 to improve State planning and coordination
 of services, and under section 932 to expand supportive services, in order
 to promote the availability of developmental, preventive, and remedial
 services to children, youth and their families that are designed to ensure--
 (A) adequate and safe physical shelter whether in their own homes or,
 if necessary, in out-of-home programs;
 (B) high quality physical and mental health care;
 (C) the enhancement of the development of children to ensure that children
 enter school prepared and ready to learn;
 (D) highest quality educational opportunity;
 (E) effective training and apprenticeships to increase the likelihood
 of employment;
 (F) opportunities for community service and productive employment, and for
 participation by children and youth in decisions affecting the lives of
 such children and youth; and
 (G) a wide range of civic, cultural, and recreational activities that
 recognize young individuals as resources and promote self-esteem and a
 sense of community; and
 (2) to States on a competitive basis under section 933 to establish family
 resource programs (including family support centers) in order to enhance the
 ability of families to remain together and to thrive through the provision
 of community based services that--
 (A) promote and build family and parenting skills;
 (B) promote and assist families in the use of formal and informal family
 support services;
 (C) create a support network to strengthen and reinforce good parenting; and
 (D) are closely linked with, but not duplicative of, other community
 resources.
SEC. 928. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall administer programs under this chapter
through the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.
(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- In carrying out this chapter, the Commissioner
may request the technical assistance and cooperation of the Secretary of
Education, the Secretary of Labor, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Transportation, the Director
of the Office of Community Services, and such other agencies and departments
of the Federal Government as may be appropriate.
SEC. 929. STATE PLAN.
(a) SUBMISSION OF PLAN- The chief executive officer of a State, in order to
be eligible for grants from an allotment under section 931, 932, or 933 for
any fiscal year, shall prepare and submit to the Commissioner a State plan
for a 3-year period.
(b) REVISIONS OF PLAN- Each chief executive officer of a State may make
annual revisions of the State plan referred to in subsection (a).
(c) CONTENT OF PLAN- The chief executive officer of a State shall include
within the State plan of that State assurances as required under sections
931, 932, or 933, and a description of the proposed multi-year plans of the
State for program development and implementation.
(d) TYPE OF APPLICATION- A State may apply for funds under one or more of
the following categories:
 (1) section 931;
 (2) sections 931 and 932 jointly; or
 (3) section 933.
In the case of each category, the State application and plan shall comply
only with the requirements of the appropriate section.
(e) APPROVAL OF PLAN-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall approve any State plan under sections
 931 and 932 that the Commissioner determines meets the requirements of
 such sections.
 (2) NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT DEFICIENCIES- The Commissioner shall
 not make a final determination disapproving any State plan, modifying such
 plan, or declaring a State to be ineligible to receive funds under sections
 931 and 932 without previously affording such State reasonable notice and
 opportunity to correct deficiencies in its application.
SEC. 930. INDEPENDENT STATE BODY.
(a) DESIGNATION- A State shall not be eligible to receive a grant from an
allotment under section 931 or 932 unless--
 (1) the chief executive officer of such State designates an independent
 State body that is composed of--
 (A) cabinet level representatives from each agency of such State that has
 responsibilities for programs affecting young individuals who shall comprise
 a majority of the independent State body; and
 (B) individuals appointed from among--
 (i) private nonprofit providers of services to young individuals;
 (ii) advocacy and citizens groups concerned with young individuals;
 (iii) committees of the legislature of such State that have responsibility
 for young individuals;
 (iv) leaders who are young individuals, including such leaders who are
 recipients of services provided under this subtitle;
 (v) representatives of the business community;
 (vi) representatives of employees of providers of services to young
 individuals;
 (vii) representatives of general purpose local government; and
 (viii) such staff as shall be necessary to--
 (I) develop a State plan to be submitted to the Commissioner for approval
 under section 931;
 (II) administer and monitor the State plan within such State;
 (III) assist in the coordination of all State activities related to the
 purpose of the title;
 (IV) serve as an effective and visible advocate for young individuals by
 reviewing and commenting on all State plans, budgets, and policies that
 affect such individuals and the families of such individuals by providing
 technical assistance to any agency, organization, association, or individual
 representing the needs of young individuals; and
 (2) the independent State body designated under paragraph (1)--
 (A) develops a system for the distribution within the State of funds received
 under sections 931 and 932 by the chief executive officer;
 (B) submits a description of such system to the Commissioner for review
 and comment; and
 (C) ensures that preference will be given in such distribution of funds to
 developing or supporting local service delivery systems that--
 (i) provide a range of services organized to tailor responses to needs
 rather than a predetermined array of services;
 (ii) are rooted in and part of the communities that such systems are designed
 to serve as measured by the degree to which public and private community
 leaders and young individuals participate in the planning of such systems; and
 (iii) demonstrate an ability to develop systematic collaboration among
 service providers on behalf of children, youth and families, including
 joint planning, joint financing, joint service delivery, common intake
 and assessment, and other arrangements that promote more effective service
 systems for such individuals.
(b) EXISTING ENTITY- The Commissioner may approve a State plan in which the
chief executive officer of the State designates as the independent State
body an existing State entity that is comprised of the parties described in
subsection (a) and that is authorized to conduct the same range of interagency
planning and coordination activities.
SEC. 931. STATE COORDINATION OF SERVICES.
(a) AUTHORITY- The Commissioner shall make grants under this section to
States on a formula basis for the purpose of improving the coordination of
services provided to children, youth, and families.
(b) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this section,
the chief executive officer of a State shall prepare and submit to the
Commissioner an application containing a plan providing assurances that--
 (1) the independent State body is committed to interagency planning that
 results in statewide policies promoting systematic collaboration among
 agencies on behalf of young individuals as demonstrated by joint planning,
 joint financing, joint service delivery, common intake and assessment,
 and other arrangements that reduce barriers to services and promote more
 effective local service delivery systems for young individuals;
 (2) such plan will be based on needs as identified through an analysis
 of updated reports (such as `State of the Child' reports) prepared by the
 State, including detailed information gathered by the State, to the extent
 practicable, on young individuals and the families of such individuals
 concerning--
 (A) age, sex, race, and ethnicity;
 (B) the residences of such individuals;
 (C) the incidence of homelessness among such individuals;
 (D) the composition of families of such individuals;
 (E) the economic situations of such individuals;
 (F) the incidence of poverty among such individuals;
 (G) experiences in the care of such individuals away from home;
 (H) the health of such individuals;
 (I) violence in the homes or communities of such individuals;
 (J) the nature of the attachment of such individuals to school and work;
 (K) dropout rates of such individuals from school; and
 (L) the character of the communities in which such individuals reside;
 (3) the system to be used for the distribution of funds within the State
 will require that--
 (A) each area have an equal opportunity to apply for or receive funds under
 this chapter; and
 (B) the public be given an opportunity to express views concerning the
 development and administration of such plan;
 (4) the independent State body will provide an inventory of existing public
 and private services for children, youth and their families and will evaluate
 the need for supportive services within the State to address the purposes
 of this title and determine the extent to which existing public and private
 programs meet such need;
 (5) the independent State body will make such reports, in such form, and
 containing such information, as the Commissioner may require;
 (6) such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures will be adopted
 as may be necessary to ensure proper disbursement of, and accounting for,
 Federal funds paid under this chapter to the chief executive officer of the
 State, including any such funds paid to the recipients of a grant or contract;
 (7) the independent State body will conduct periodic evaluations of activities
 and projects carried out pursuant to sections 931 and 932 and will report
 the results and recommendations to the chief executive officer of the State
 and the State legislature;
 (8) the chief executive officer of the State will provide technical assistance
 or in-service training opportunities for personnel responsible for carrying
 out the purposes of sections 931 and 932; and
 (9) the chief executive officer of each State will provide for the
 implementation of the requirements of section 932, relating to supportive
 services.
(c) USE OF GRANTS TO STATES- Notwithstanding section 934(g), the amounts made
available to each State under section 934(a) may be used to make grants to a
State to enable such State to pay such percentages as the independent State
body of such State determines to be appropriate, of the cost of administering
the State plan of such State including--
 (1) the costs of the preparation of such plan and the provision of technical
 assistance to local areas;
 (2) the costs of the evaluation of activities carried out under such plan;
 (3) the costs of the collection of data and the carrying out of analyses
 related to the need for supportive services within the State;
 (4) the costs of the dissemination of information obtained under paragraph
 (3); and
 (5) the costs of the provision of short-term training to personnel of public
 or nonprofit private agencies and organizations engaged in the operation
 of programs authorized by this chapter.
(e) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT- Amounts received by a State under sections 931
and 932 shall be used only to supplement, not to supplant, the amount of
Federal, State, and local funds expended for the purposes for which grants
are made under sections 931 and 932. In no event shall such expenditures be
used to satisfy the matching requirements of any other Federal program.
(f) RELATIONSHIP TO FAMILY RESOURCE AND SUPPORT PROGRAM GRANTS- If a State
intends to apply for a grant under section 933 to be used for the same
calendar year as the grant under this section, such State shall include in
the application for a grant under this section a description of plans for
family resource and support programs and for the coordination of the use of
all funds received under this chapter.
SEC. 932. SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
(a) AUTHORITY- The Commissioner shall carry out a program for making grants
to a State, that has designated an independent State body under section 930
and provided for coordinated services under section 931, for distribution by
the chief executive officer under a State plan approved under section 931 to
demonstrate successful program approaches to fill service gaps identified
through State planning and advocacy efforts for any of the areas specified
in paragraph (2).
(b) ELIGIBLE SERVICES- The services eligible to be provided under subsection
(a) are services--
 (1) that are designed to facilitate the provision of comprehensive community
 based services that are efficient, coordinated, and readily available through
 such activities as case planning, case management, intake and assessment,
 and information and referral; and
 (2) that serve any of the following purposes--
 (A) provide adequate and safe physical shelter to young individuals and
 the families of such individuals, especially in emergency circumstances;
 (B) provide transitional living services to young individuals who are
 homeless;
 (C) enable young individuals to attain and maintain physical and mental
 well-being;
 (D) provide health screening to detect or prevent illnesses, or both, that
 occur most frequently in young individuals as well as better treatment
 and counseling;
 (E) enhance the development of children to ensure that such children enter
 school prepared and ready to learn;
 (F) promote the highest quality of educational opportunity, especially
 through drop-out prevention programs, remediation for young individuals
 who have dropped out of school, and vocational education;
 (G) provide effective training apprenticeships and employment opportunities;
 (H) promote participation in community service and civic, cultural, and
 recreational activities that value young individuals as resources and
 promote self-esteem and a stake in the community;
 (I) promote the participation of young individuals in decisions concerning
 planning and managing the lives of such individuals;
 (J) encourage young individuals and the families of such individuals to use
 any community facilities and services that are available to such individuals;
 (K) ensure that young individuals who are unable to live with the biological
 families of such individuals have a safe place to live until such individuals
 can return home or move into independent adult life; and
 (L) prevent the abuse, neglect, or exploitation of young individuals.
SEC. 933. FAMILY RESOURCE AND SUPPORT PROGRAM GRANTS.
(a) AUTHORITY- The Commissioner shall make grants under this section to
States on a competitive basis, for the purpose of developing, expanding,
and operating a network of local family resource and support programs in
collaboration with existing health, mental health, education, employment and
training, child welfare, and other social services agencies within the State.
(b) AMOUNT OF GRANT- The amount of a grant awarded under this section for the
first year in which a program is operated or expanded under this section shall
not exceed $6,000,000 nor be less than $1,500,000 based on an assessment by
the Commissioner of the application submitted by the State under subsection
(d), the scope of the proposed program to be operated or expanded, and the
population to be served by the program.
(c) Duration-
 (1) IN GENERAL- A grant awarded under this section shall be for a term of
 3 years.
 (2) Limitation-
 (A) USE- During the 12-month period immediately after the date on which the
 grant is awarded to a State under this section, the State may use the funds
 received under such grant exclusively for program development. Subsequent
 to such period grant funds shall be used for program implementation and
 operation unless the Commissioner grants a waiver from this limitation.
 (B) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS- To receive funds after the period referred to
 in subparagraph (A) and after the 12-month period immediately following
 such initial period, the State shall report to the Commissioner concerning
 the plans of the State for--
 (i) the establishment and expansion of a network of family resource and
 support programs in the State;
 (ii) the number of family resource and support programs that have been
 expanded or newly established with grant funds under this section;
 (iii) the nature of those programs, including the populations served and
 services provided; and
 (iv) the extent of local community and parental participation in the
 development, operation, and governance of the programs.
(d) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this section a State
shall prepare and submit, to the Commissioner, an application at such time,
in such form, and containing such information as the Commissioner shall
require, including--
 (1) an assurance that the chief executive officer of the State will designate
 a lead agency to assume responsibility for the development and implementation
 of family resource and support programs;
 (2) an assurance that the State has a process for effective program
 development that--
 (A) does not duplicate current processes or programs;
 (B) makes publicly available a written plan for the establishment of a
 network of local family resource and support programs; and
 (C) involves appropriate personnel in the development process, including--
 (i) parents and prospective participants in family resource and support
 programs;
 (ii) staff of existing family resource and support programs;
 (iii) representatives of State and local government social service, health,
 mental health, education, employment, and economic development agencies;
 (iv) representatives of the business community;
 (v) representatives of general purpose local government;
 (vi) representatives of local communities in which family resource and
 support programs are likely to be located; and
 (vii) other individuals with expertise in the services that the family
 resource and support programs of the State intend to offer;
 (3) a description of the current family support programs in the State,
 the current unmet need for such services, and the intended scope of the
 State family resource and support program, the population to be served,
 the manner in which the program will be operated, and the manner in which
 such program will relate to other community services and public agencies;
 (4) a description of the projected level of financial commitment by the
 State to developing a family resource and support program;
 (5) a description of the core services, as required under this chapter,
 and other support services to be provided by the program and the manner in
 which such services will be provided;
 (6) assurances that the State program will maintain cultural diversity;
 (7) a description of the guidelines for requiring parental involvement
 in State and local program development, policy design, and governance and
 the process for assessing and demonstrating that parental involvement in
 program development, operation, and governance occurs;
 (8) an assurance that, in awarding local grants, priority will be given to
 programs serving low-income communities and programs serving young parents;
 (9) a description of the local interagency planning process to be utilized
 to develop and implement local family resource and support programs;
 (10) a description of the criteria that the State will utilize for awarding
 grants for local programs so that they meet the requirements of subsection
 (f);
 (11) a plan for providing training, technical assistance, and other assistance
 to local communities in program development;
 (12) a description of the methods to be utilized to evaluate the
 implementation and effectiveness of the family resource and support programs
 within the State; and
 (13) a description of proposed actions by the State that will reduce
 practical and regulatory barriers to the provision of comprehensive services
 to families, including family resource and support programs.
(e) CRITERIA- In determining whether to award a grant to a State under this
section the Commissioner shall consider--
 (1) the plans for program development, expansion, and operation by the State,
 including the amount of training, technical assistance and other support
 that the State will provide to local communities in the development and
 operation of their programs;
 (2) the established guidelines for requiring and assessing parental
 involvement in local program development, policy design, and goverance;
 (3) the budget of the State for the expenditure of Federal and State funds
 and the ability of the program to secure financial commitments from a
 variety of sources, including public and private entities; and
 (4) any other factors determined appropriate by the Commissioner.
(f) LOCAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- A State that receives a grant under such
section shall use such grant to establish local family resource and support
programs that--
 (1) implement a community planning process involving parents, local public
 and private non-profit agencies responsible for providing health, education,
 employment training, Head Start and other early childhood, child welfare,
 and other social services to determine local family needs, and identify
 appropriate community agencies to administer such programs locally;
 (2) provide core services, and other services directly or through contracts
 or agreements with other local agencies; and
 (3) involve parents in the development, operation, and governance of the
 program.
SEC. 934. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION AND ALLOTMENT.
(a) ADMINISTRATION ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES; STATE COORDINATION;
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out sections 919, 931, and 932 of this title, $30,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1992, 1993,
 and 1994. Funds appropriated under this paragraph shall remain available
 for expenditure in the fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year for which
 such funds are appropriated.
 (2) AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATION- Of the amount appropriated under paragraph
 (1) for any fiscal year--
 (A) not more than 10 percent shall be available to carry out section 919; and
 (B) not less than 90 percent shall be available to carry out sections 931
 and 932.
 (3) ALLOTMENT FORMULA- Except as provided in paragraph (4), from the amount
 available under paragraph (2)(B) for each fiscal year, a State shall be
 allotted an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount appropriated
 for such fiscal year as the population of the State that is under the age
 of 21 bears to the population of all States that is under the age of 21.
 (4) EXCEPTIONS-
 (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B) and subject to
 the availability of appropriations under paragraph (1), no State shall be
 allotted less than $300,000 under the formula established under paragraph (3).
 (B) LIMITATION ON ALLOTMENT- Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), Guam, the
 Virgin Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa,
 and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall each be allotted
 not less than $75,000 under the formula established under paragraph (2).
(b) DETERMINATION OF AGE- The number of individuals under the age of 21 in
each State shall be determined by the Commissioner on the basis of the most
recent data available to the Commissioner.
(c) TRANSFER OF ALLOTTED FUNDS- Whenever the Commissioner determines that--
 (1) any amount allotted to a State for a fiscal year under section 931 or
 932 will not be used by such State for carrying out the purpose for which
 such allotment was made; or
 (2) a State has failed to qualify under the State plan required under
 section 929;
the Commissioner shall make such allotment available for carrying out such
purposes to other participating States in a proportional manner based on
the relative population of the State of individuals under the age of 21.
(d) FAMILY RESOURCE AND SUPPORT PROGRAMS- There are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out section 933, $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and
such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1994.
(e) LIMITATION- A State shall not use in excess of 10 percent of a grant
awarded under section 932 or 933 for administrative activities at the
State level.
(f) GRANTS FOR INDIANS- The Commissioner shall use 1 percent of the amount
appropriated under this section for each fiscal year to make allotments to
Indian tribes and tribal organizations (such terms having the same meaning
given to such terms in section 4(b) and 4(c) of the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b (b) and (c))) that submit to
the Commissioner a plan that meets criteria consistent with the provisions
of this chapter and that comply with other requirements established by the
Commissioner.
(g) LIMITATION- Grants made under this subtitle may be used to pay not more
than 80 percent of the cost of--
 (1) the preparation, administration, and evaluation of State plans under
 section 931;
 (2) the development of comprehensive, efficient, coordinated supportive
 services under section 932; and
 (3) the development, expansion, and operation of local family support and
 resource programs under section 933.
The remaining 20 percent of such cost shall be paid by the State with funds
from non-Federal sources.
CHAPTER 3--NATIONAL CLEARINGHOUSE
SEC. 955. SHORT TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the `Family Resource Act'.
SEC. 956. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) fundamental changes in the demographics and economics of family life
 in the United States over the past 20 years have had a profound effect on
 children and their parents;
 (2) since 1966, the number of women working outside the home has increased
 by 92 percent and the number of two earner families has increased by over
 50 percent;
 (3) 61 percent of the children born today will live in a single-parent
 family before reaching the age of 20, with one out of every three single
 female heads of households living on income below the Federal poverty level;
 (4) one out of every four children under the age of 6 in the United States
 currently lives below the Federal poverty level;
 (5) over the past 10 years, parents have increasingly come together with
 other parents to organize family resource and support programs that promote
 healthy child development and increase parental competency, particularly
 families at risk; and
 (6) Federal investment in promoting the development of family resource and
 support programs will reap long-term benefits for individual families and
 the nation as a whole.
(b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to--
 (1) stimulate the development and expansion of family resource and support
 programs that are prevention oriented;
 (2) encourage early intervention of such programs with families to ameliorate
 problem situations before such situations become crises; and
 (3) assist parents in enhancing their children's development to ensure that
 their children enter school prepared and ready to learn.
SEC. 957. DEFINITION.
As used in this chapter, the term `family resource and support programs'
means community-based services that offer sustained assistance to families
at various stages in their development. Such services shall promote parental
competencies and behaviors that will lead to the healthy and positive personal
development of parents and children through--
 (1) the provision of assistance to build family skills and assist parents
 in improving their capacities to be supportive and nurturing parents;
 (2) the provision of assistance to families to enable such families to use
 other formal and informal resources and opportunities for assistance that
 are available within the communities of such families; and
 (3) the creation of supportive networks to enhance the childrearing capacity
 of parents and assist in compensating for the increased social isolation
 and vulnerability of families.
SEC. 958. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL CENTER ON FAMILY RESOURCE AND SUPPORT
PROGRAMS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Commissioner shall establish, through grant or contract,
a national center for the collection and provision of programmatic information
and technical assistance that relates to all types of family resource and
support programs, to be known as the `National Center on Family Resource
and Support Programs'.
(b) FUNCTIONS- The national center established under subsection (a) shall
serve as a national information and data clearinghouse, training, technical
assistance, and material development source for family resource and support
programs. Such center shall--
 (1) develop and maintain a system for disseminating information on all
 types of family resource and support programs and on the state of family
 resource and support program development, including information concerning
 the most effective model programs;
 (2) develop and sponsor a variety of training institutes and curricula for
 family resource and support program staff;
 (3) identify several model programs representing the various types of family
 resource and support programs to develop technical assistance materials
 and activities to assist other agencies in establishing family resource
 and support programs; and
 (4) develop State-wide networks of family resource and support programs
 for the purpose of sharing and disseminating information.
SEC. 959. EVALUATION.
The Commissioner shall, through grants or contracts awarded or entered
into with independent auditors, conduct evaluations and related activities,
of family resource and support programs, including--
 (1) evaluations of on-going programs;
 (2) process evaluations focusing on implementation strategies; and
 (3) the development of simple evaluation models for use by local family
 resource and support programs.
SEC. 960. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTER- To carry out section 958, there are authorized
to be appropriated $2,300,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be
necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1994.
(b) EVALUATION- To carry out section 959, there are authorized to be
appropriated $700,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary
for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1994.
Subtitle B--White House Conference on Children, Youth, and Families
SEC. 981. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the `1993 White House Conference on Children,
Youth, and Families'.
SEC. 982. FINDINGS.
(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) children and youth are inherently our most valuable resource and their
 welfare, protection, healthy development, and positive role in society are
 essential to the Nation;
 (2) children and youth deserve love, respect, and guidance, as well as
 good health, shelter, food, education, productive work, and preparation
 for responsible participation in community life;
 (3) an increasing opportunity for children and youth to participate in the
 decisions that affect their lives is essential;
 (4) the family is the primary caregiver and the source of social learning
 which must be supported and strengthened, but when families are unable to
 ensure the satisfaction of the needs of children and youth, it is society's
 responsibility to assist them;
 (5) at a minimum, all children and youth need and deserve access to--
 (A) the best possible physical and mental health;
 (B) adequate and safe physical shelter;
 (C) the highest quality of educational opportunity;
 (D) effective training, apprenticeships, opportunities for community service,
 and productive employment;
 (E) the widest range of civic, cultural, and recreational activities which
 recognize young Americans as resources and promote self-esteem and a stake
 in their communities;
 (F) comprehensive community services which are efficient, coordinated,
 and readily available; and
 (G) genuine participation in decisions concerning the planning and managing
 of their lives; and
 (6) there is a great need for a comprehensive national policy with respect
 to young individuals, designed to engage Federal, State, and local government
 agencies, youth organizations, and other voluntary organizations.
(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the policy of the Congress that the Federal
Government should work jointly with the States and their citizens to develop
recommendations and plans for action to meet the challenge and needs of
young individuals.
SEC. 983. AUTHORITY OF THE PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY; FINAL REPORT.
(a) CALLING OF THE CONFERENCE- The President shall call a White House
Conference on Children, Youth, and Families in 1993 in order to develop
recommendations for further action in the field of children, youth, and
families which will further the policy set forth in section 982(b). The
Conference shall be planned and conducted under the direction of the Secretary
in cooperation with the Commissioner and with the heads of such other Federal
departments and agencies as are appropriate. Such assistance may include
the assignment of personnel.
(b) PURPOSES OF THE CONFERENCE- The purposes of the Conference shall be--
 (1) to increase the public awareness of the value and needs of young
 individuals;
 (2) to examine the well-being of young individuals as well as the problems
 which they face;
 (3) to describe the extent to which young individuals with identified needs
 do not receive services to meet such needs;
 (4) to determine the reasons why young individuals are not receiving needed
 services; and
 (5) to develop such specific and comprehensive recommendations for executive
 and legislative action as may be appropriate to improve the well-being of
 youth and their families.
(c) Conference Participants and Delegates-
 (1) PARTICIPANTS- In order to carry out the purposes of the Conference,
 the Conference shall bring together--
 (A) representatives of Federal, State, and local governments, including
 representatives of the General Accounting Office;
 (B) professionals who are working in the field of children, youth, and
 families; and
 (C) representatives of the general public, particularly young individuals.
 (2) SELECTION OF DELEGATES- The delegates to attend the Conference shall be
 selected without regard to political affiliation or past partisan activity and
 shall, to the best of the appointing authority's ability, be representative
 of the spectrum of thought in the field of children, youth, and families.
SEC. 984. CONFERENCE ADMINISTRATION.
(a) ADMINISTRATION- For purposes of carrying out this subtitle, the Secretary
shall--
 (1) request the cooperation and assistance of the heads of such other
 Federal departments and agencies as may be appropriate;
 (2) furnish all reasonable assistance to State agencies administering
 programs related to children, youth and families, and to other appropriate
 organizations, to enable them to organize and conduct conferences in
 conjunction with the Conference;
 (3) prepare and make available for public comment a proposed agenda for
 the Conference which reflects, to the greatest extent possible, the major
 issues facing children, youth, and families consistent with subsection (a);
 (4) prepare and make available background materials which the Secretary
 deems necessary for the use of delegates to the Conference; and
 (5) engage such additional personnel as may be necessary to carry out
 this section without regard to provisions of title 5, United States Code,
 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard
 to chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
 classification and General Schedule pay rates.
(b) DUTIES- The Secretary shall, in carrying out the Secretary's
responsibilities and functions under this section, ensure that--
 (1) the conferences under subsection (a)(2) will be conducted so as to
 ensure broad participation of young individuals;
 (2) the proposed agenda for the Conference under subsection (a)(3)
 is published in the Federal Register not less than 180 days before the
 beginning of the Conference and the proposed agenda is open for public
 comment for a period of not less than 60 days;
 (3) the final agenda for the Conference, taking into consideration the
 comments received under paragraph (2), is published in the Federal Register
 and transmitted to the chief executive officers of the States not later
 than 30 days after the close of the public comment period provided for
 under paragraph (2);
 (4) the personnel engaged under subsection (a)(5) shall be fairly balanced
 in terms of points of views represented and shall be appointed without
 regard to political affiliation or previous partisan activities;
 (5) the recommendations of the Conference are not inappropriately influenced
 by any appointing authority or by any special interest, but will instead
 be the result of the independent judgment of the Conference; and
 (6) to the extent practicable, current and adequate statistical data
 (including decennial census data) and other information on the well-being
 of young individuals in the United States are readily available, in advance
 of the Conference, to the delegates of the Conference, together with such
 information as may be necessary to evaluate Federal programs and policies
 relating to children and youth. In carrying out this subparagraph, the
 Secretary may make grants to, and enter into contracts with, public agencies
 and nonprofit private organizations.
SEC. 985. CONFERENCE COMMITTEES.
(a) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to
the Conference which shall include representatives from the Federal Council
on Children, Youth, and Families, public agencies and nonprofit private
organizations as appropriate.
(b) OTHER COMMITTEES- The Secretary may establish such other committees,
including technical committees, as may be necessary to assist in the planning,
conducting, and reviewing of the Conference.
(c) COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES- Each committee established under this section
shall be composed of professionals and public members, and shall include
individuals from low-income families and from minority groups.
(d) COMPENSATION- Members of any committee established under this section
(other than any officers or employees of the Federal Government), while
attending conferences or meetings of the committee or otherwise serving at
the request of the Secretary, shall be entitled to receive compensation
at a rate to be fixed by the Secretary, but not to exceed the daily rate
payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5,
United States Code (including travel time). While away from their homes
or regular places of business, such members may be allowed travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized under section 5703 of
such title for persons employed intermittently in Federal Government service.
SEC. 986. REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE.
(a) PROPOSED REPORT- A proposed report of the Conference which shall include
a statement of comprehensive coherent national policy on children, youth,
and families together with recommendations for the implementation of such
policy, shall be published and submitted to the chief executive officers of
the States not later than 180 days following the date on which the Conference
is adjourned. The findings and recommendations included in the published
proposed report shall be available immediately to the public.
(b) RESPONSE TO PROPOSED REPORT- The chief executive officers of the States,
after reviewing and soliciting recommendations and comments on the proposed
report of the Conference, shall submit to the Secretary, not later than
180 days after receiving such report, their views and findings on the
recommendations of the Conference.
(c) FINAL REPORT- Not later than 180 days after submission of the views and
comments of the chief executive officers of the States, the Secretary shall--
 (1) prepare a final report on the conference, which shall include--
 (A) a statement of the policy and recommendations of the Conference;
 (B) the views and comments of the chief executive officers of the States; and
 (C) the recommendations of the Secretary, after taking into consideration
 the views and comments of such officers, for administrative and legislative
 action necessary to implement the recommendations of the Conference; and
 (2) publish and transmit such report to the President and the chairman of
 the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and
 chairman of the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
SEC. 987. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this subtitle--
 (1) the term `Conference' means the 1993 White House Conference on Children,
 Youth, and Families; and
 (2) the terms `child', `youth', and `young individual' means an individual
 who is less than 21 years of age.
SEC. 988. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as
may be necessary, for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994, to carry
out this subtitle. Sums appropriated under this subsection shall remain
available until the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date
the Conference is adjourned. New spending authority or authority to enter
into contracts as provided in this subtitle shall be effective only to the
extent and in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
(b) RETURN OF UNEXPENDED FUNDS- Any funds remaining upon the expiration of
the 1-year period referred to in subsection (a) shall be returned to the
Treasury of the United States and credited as miscellaneous receipts.
TITLE X--EFFECTIVE DATES
SEC. 1001. EFFECTIVE DATES.
(a) GENERAL EFFECTIVE DATE- Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act
and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 1990.
(b) SPECIAL EFFECTIVE DATES- (1) The amendment made by section 207(b) shall
take effect immediately before October 1, 1990.
(2) Section 646(b) of the Head Start Act, as added by section 115, shall
take effect on April 1, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.