 
--H.R.3248--
H.R.3248
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To revise the boundary of Gettysburg National Military Park in the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GETTYSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK BOUNDARY REVISION.
 (a) LANDS INCLUDED IN THE PARK- In furtherance of the purposes of the
 Act entitled `An Act to establish a national military park at Gettysburg,
 Pennsylvania', approved February 11, 1895 (16 U.S.C. 430g et seq.), the
 Gettysburg National Military Park (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `park') shall hereafter comprise the lands and interests in lands within
 the boundary generally depicted as `Park Boundary' on the map entitled
 `Gettysburg National Military Park Boundary Map', numbered NPS 305/80034-B,
 and dated March 1990, which shall be on file and available for public
 inspection in the Office of the Director of the National Park Service,
 Department of the Interior.
 (b) LANDS EXCLUDED FROM THE PARK- Lands and interests in lands outside
 of the boundary so depicted as `Park Boundary' on the map referred to in
 subsection (a) are hereby excluded from the park and shall be disposed of
 in accordance with the provisions of section 2(c).
SEC. 2. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF LANDS.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and
 interests in lands within the park by donation, purchase with donated or
 appropriated funds, exchange, or otherwise. In acquiring lands and interests
 in lands under this Act, the Secretary shall acquire the minimum Federal
 interests necessary to achieve the objectives identified for specific areas
 and the park.
 (b) AUTHORITY TO CONVEY FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD INTERESTS WITHIN PARK-
 The Secretary may convey lands and interests in lands within the park
 authorized in accordance with subsection (a) of the Act of July 15, 1968
 (16 U.S.C. 460l-22), except that, notwithstanding subsection (d) of that
 section, the net proceeds from any such conveyance may be used, subject to
 appropriations, to acquire lands and interests within the park.
 (c) CONVEYANCE OF LANDS EXCLUDED FROM PARK- (1) The Secretary is authorized,
 in accordance with applicable existing law, to exchange Federal lands and
 interests excluded from the park pursuant to section 1(b) for the purpose
 of acquiring lands within the park boundary.
 (2) If any such Federal lands or interests are not exchanged within five
 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary may sell any
 or all such lands or interests to the highest bidder, in accordance with
 such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, but any such conveyance
 shall be at not less than the fair market value of the land or interest,
 as determined by the Secretary.
 (3) All Federal lands and interests sold or exchanged pursuant to this
 subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as will assure the
 use of the property in a manner which, in the judgment of the Secretary, will
 protect the park and the Gettysburg Battlefield Historic District (hereafter
 in this Act referred to as the `historic district'). Notwithstanding any
 other provision of law, the net proceeds from any such sale or exchange
 shall be used, subject to appropriations, to acquire lands and interests
 within the park.
 (d) RELINQUISHMENT OF LEGISLATIVE JURISDICTION TO PENNSYLVANIA- With respect
 to any lands over which the United States exercises exclusive or concurrent
 legislative jurisdiction and which are excluded from the park pursuant to
 section 1(b), the Secretary may relinquish to the State of Pennsylvania
 such exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction by filing with the
 Governor a notice of relinquishment to take effect upon acceptance thereof,
 unless otherwise provided by the laws of the State.
SEC. 3. AGREEMENTS WITH RESPECT TO MONUMENTS AND TABLETS LOCATED OUTSIDE
PARK BOUNDARY.
 The Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements with the owners of
 property in proximity to but outside the boundary of the park on which
 historic monuments and tablets commemorating the Battle of Gettysburg have
 been erected on or before January 1, 1990. The Secretary may make funds
 available, subject to appropriations, for the maintenance, protection, and
 interpretation of such monuments and tablets pursuant to such agreements. In
 addition, within the area depicted as the `Gettysburg Battlefield Historic
 District' on the map referred to in section 1(a), or in proximity thereto,
 the Secretary may, with the consent of the owner, acquire, by donation,
 purchase, or exchange, lands and interests comprising such monuments and
 tablets together with lands and interests necessary to provide adequate
 public access thereto.
SEC. 4. CONSERVATION WITHIN GETTYSBURG BATTLEFIELD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
 (a) ENCOURAGEMENT OF CONSERVATION- The Secretary shall take appropriate
 action to encourage conservation of the historic district by landowners,
 local governments, organizations, and businesses.
 (b) PRIORITIZATION OF GRANTS- Within the historic district, the Secretary
 shall give priority in making grants under section 101(d), and in providing
 technical assistance, information, and advice under section 101(h), of the
 National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(d), (h)) to those programs
 and activities in the historic district that will assure development and
 use of natural and cultural resources in a manner that is consistent with
 the conservation and maintenance of the district's historic character.
 (c) PROVISION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide technical
 assistance to assist local governments in cooperative efforts which complement
 the values of the park and the historic district and to help landowners
 prepare individual property plans which meet landowner and conservation
 objectives in the historic district.
 (d) REIMBURSEMENT OF PLANNING COSTS- The Secretary, under such terms and
 conditions as the Secretary may prescribe and at the request of any local
 or county government within the historic district, shall provide matching
 reimbursements for up to 50 percent of the planning costs incurred by such
 government in the development of comprehensive plans and land use guidelines
 which are consistent with conserving the historic character of the historic
 district. Reimbursements may only be provided under this subsection to the
 extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts.
 (e) ACCEPTANCE OF EASEMENT DONATIONS- The Secretary, upon recommendation from
 the Director of the National Park Service, in consultation with the Advisory
 Commission established under section 5, is authorized to accept donations
 of conservation easements on land located within the historic district.
 (f) FEDERAL CONSISTENCY- (1) Any Federal or federally assisted activity or
 undertaking in the historic district, shall be consistent to the maximum
 extent possible with the purposes of the preservation of the historic
 district, including its rural, agricultural, and town elements, and shall also
 comply with the National Historic Preservation Act and other applicable laws.
 (2) The head of any Federal agency (hereafter in this subsection referred
 to as the `agency') having direct or indirect jurisdiction over a proposed
 Federal or federally assisted undertaking in the historic district, and
 the head of any Federal agency having authority to license or permit any
 undertaking in such area, shall at the earliest feasible date prepare a
 detailed analysis of any proposed action and submit it to the Secretary.
 (3) The Secretary shall review the analysis and consult with the agency. If
 after such review and consultation, the Secretary finds that the proposed
 action is not consistent with the purposes identified in this subsection,
 the agency shall not proceed with the action until after a justification for
 the action has been submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress with
 adequate time allowed for Congressional comment. Such justification shall
 include the following elements: the anticipated effects on the historic and
 commemorative character of the historic district, the social and economic
 necessity for the proposed action, all possible alternatives to the proposed
 action, the comparative benefits of proposed alternative actions, and the
 mitigation measures outlined in the proposed action.
SEC. 5. ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Gettysburg National
 Military Park Advisory Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Advisory Commission'). The Advisory Commission shall be composed of eleven
 members, as follows:
 (1) One member representing each of the local governments from the four
 townships surrounding the park and the Borough of Gettysburg, appointed by
 the Secretary.
 (2) One member representing the Adams County, Pennsylvania government,
 appointed by the Secretary.
 (3) One member representing the State Historic Preservation Office of the
 State of Pennsylvania, appointed by the Secretary.
 (4) Two members who are residents of Adams County and who are knowledgeable
 about the park and its resources, appointed by the Secretary, one of whom
 shall own land or interests in land within the park boundary.
 (5) One member with expertise in local historic preservation, appointed by
 the Secretary.
 (6) The Director of the National Park Service or his designee, ex officio.
Members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years, as designated
by the Secretary at the time of the initial appointments. Any member of
the Advisory Commission appointed for a definite term may serve after
the expiration of his term until his successor is appointed. The Advisory
Commission shall designate one of its members as Chairperson. Six members
of the Advisory Commission shall constitute a quorum.
 (b) MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT ISSUES- The Secretary, or his designee,
 shall from time to time, but at least semiannually, meet and consult with
 the Advisory Commission to coordinate the management of the park and the
 historic district with local jurisdictions.
 (c) MEETINGS- The Advisory Commission shall meet on a regular basis. Notice
 of meetings and agenda shall be published in local newspapers which have a
 distribution which generally covers the area affected by the park. Advisory
 Commission meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to
 ensure adequate public involvement.
 (d) EXPENSES- Members of the Advisory Commission shall serve without
 compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred
 in carrying out their responsibilities under this Act on vouchers signed
 by the Chairperson.
 (e) CHARTER- The provisions of section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee
 Act (5 U.S.C. App.) are hereby waived with respect to this Advisory
 Commission.
SEC. 6. INTERPRETATION.
 In administering the park, the Secretary shall take such action as is
 necessary and appropriate to interpret, for the benefit of visitors to the
 park and the general public, the Battle of Gettysburg in the larger context of
 the Civil War and American history, including the causes and consequences of
 the Civil War and including the effects of the war on all the American people.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.