 
--H.R.3282--
H.R.3282
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend title 5, United States Code, to authorize the continuation of the
performance management and recognition system through March 31, 1991, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Performance Management and Recognition System
 Reauthorization Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION.
 Section 5410 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `September 30, 1989' and inserting `March 31, 1991'.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO MERIT INCREASES.
 (a) AMENDMENTS- Section 5404 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `applicable' in paragraph (1) and inserting `first';
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively; and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
 `(2) the term `second reference rate', as used with respect to the rate of
 basic pay of an employee, means the rate equal to the sum of--
 `(A) the minimum rate of basic pay provided under section 5332 of this
 title for the grade of the position held by such employee; and
 `(B) two-thirds of the difference between the maximum rate of basic pay
 provided for such grade under such section and the minimum rate of basic
 pay so provided;'; and
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by striking `applicable' in paragraph (1)(A) and inserting `first'; and
 (B) by striking subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
 `(B) If, on the day before the effective date of an increase under this
 section, the rate of basic pay of the employee equals or exceeds the first
 reference rate but does not equal or exceed the second reference rate,
 and the performance of such employee is rated--
 `(i) at the level 2 levels above the fully successful level, the rate of
 basic pay of the employee shall be increased by an amount equivalent to a
 merit increase; or
 `(ii) at the fully successful level or the level 1 level above the fully
 successful level, the rate of basic pay of the employee shall be increased
 by an amount equivalent to one-half of a merit increase.
 `(C) If the rate of basic pay of the employee equals or exceeds the second
 reference rate on the day before the effective date of an increase under
 this section, and the performance of such employee is rated--
 `(i) at the level 2 levels above the fully successful level, the rate of
 basic pay of the employee shall be increased by an amount equivalent to a
 merit increase;
 `(ii) at the level 1 level above the fully successful level, the rate of
 basic pay of the employee shall be increased by an amount equivalent to
 one-half of a merit increase; or
 `(iii) at the fully successful level, the rate of basic pay of the employee
 shall be increased by an amount equivalent to one-third of a merit increase.'
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on October 1, 1989, and shall apply with respect to any pay increase which
 becomes effective during the 18-month period beginning on that date.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PERFORMANCE AWARDS.
 Section 5406(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking subclause (III) of paragraph (2)(A)(i) and inserting the
 following:
 `(III) shall be 1.15 percent for each of fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991.';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) by striking `of the 5 fiscal years' and inserting
 `fiscal year'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(3) The estimate under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) for fiscal year 1991 shall
 not take into account any period following March 31 of that year.'.
SEC. 5. PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4302a(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended
 by striking paragraphs (5) and (6) and inserting the following:
 `(5) procedures under which any employee whose performance has been rated
 below fully successful shall be given a performance improvement plan (which
 shall include, along with such other matters as the agency may consider
 appropriate, a description of the types of improvements that the employee
 must demonstrate to attain the fully successful level of performance)
 and a reasonable period of time to attain that level; and
 `(6) reassigning, reducing in grade, or removing any employee who fails to
 attain at least the fully successful level once afforded the period under
 paragraph (5).
The provisions of section 4303, relating to the reduction in grade or removal
of an employee for unacceptable performance, shall apply with respect to
any reduction in grade or removal under paragraph (6).'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by this section shall take effect
 on October 1, 1989, and shall apply with respect to any performance
 determination (under section 4302a(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code)
 given on or after that date.
SEC. 6. TEMPORARY CONTINUATION OF PROVISION RELATING TO THE SCHEDULE FOR
PAYING THE LUMP-SUM CREDIT TO CERTAIN ANNUITANTS.
 Section 6001(a) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (5
 U.S.C. 8343a note) is amended by striking `October 1, 1989' and inserting
 `December 3, 1989'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.