 
--H.R.5667--
H.R.5667
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to transfer jurisdiction
of the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area from the Secretary
of the Army to the Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. BIG SOUTH FORK NATIONAL RIVER AND RECREATION AREA.
 (a) TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION- (1) Section 108(b)(1) of the Water Resources
 Development Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 43) is amended by striking the 1st and
 2nd sentences and inserting the following: `Effective upon the date of
 enactment of this sentence, responsibility for all planning, acquisition, and
 development, as well as administrative jurisdiction over all Federal lands,
 water, interests therein, and improvements thereon, within the National
 Area is hereby transferred to the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary
 may complete all acquisition and development activities in progress on the
 date of enactment of this sentence, and the Secretary and the Secretary
 of the Interior may, by mutual agreement, provide for an orderly and
 phased assumption of responsibilities (including but not limited to
 land acquisition and the construction of necessary access roads, day-use
 facilities, campground facilities, lodges, and administrative buildings)
 and available funds by the Secretary of the Interior in furtherance of the
 purposes of this section. The Secretary of the Interior shall administer
 the National Area in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August
 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), as amended and supplemented. The
 authorities set forth in this section which were available to the Secretary
 immediately prior to the date of enactment of this sentence shall after
 such date be available to the Secretary of the Interior.'.
 (2) Section 108(b)(1) of such Act is further amended by striking the last
 sentence.
 (3) Paragraph (2) of section 108(b) of such Act is repealed, and section
 108(b) of such Act is further amended by striking `(1)' after `(b)'.
 (b) EXCEPTIONS TO GORGE AREA RESTRICTIONS- Section 108(e)(2)(A) of such Act is
 amended by striking the 3rd and 4th sentences and inserting the following: `No
 structures shall be constructed within the gorge area except for structures
 associated with the improvement of historical sites specified in paragraphs
 (5), (6), and (8), except for day-use facilities and primitive campgrounds
 along the primary and secondary access routes specified herein and within
 500 feet of such roads, and except for primitive campgrounds accessible
 only by water or on foot. No motorized transportation shall be allowed
 in the gorge area except on designated access routes, existing routes for
 administration of the National Area, existing routes for access to cemeteries;
 except that motorboat access into the gorge area shall be permitted up to
 a point one-tenth of a mile downstream from Devils' Jumps and except for
 the continued operation and maintenance of the rail line currently operated
 and known as the K & T Railroad. The Secretary of the Interior shall impose
 limitations on the use of existing routes for access to cemeteries.'.
 (c) MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING ROADS WITHIN GORGE AREA- Section 108(e)(2)(D) of
 such Act is amended by striking `nonvehicular' and inserting `nonmotorized'.
 (d) CONSTRUCTION WITHIN GORGE AREA- Section 108(e) of such Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(8) IMPROVEMENT OF CHARIT CREEK LODGE AND HISTORIC STRUCTURES- The Secretary
 of the Interior may make improvements to the Charit Creek Lodge and associated
 facilities and to historic structures determined to be eligible for listing
 in the National Register of Historic Places. Such improvements shall be made
 in a manner consistent with the historic scene and the limited ability of
 the National Area to accommodate additional use and development. Improvements
 to the Charit Creek Lodge and associated facilities shall be made within the
 approximately 30 acres of cleared land existing on the date of the enactment
 of this paragraph and within carrying capacity limitations determined by
 the National Park Service.'.
 (e) FUNDING- Section 108(k) of such Act is amended by striking the last
 sentence and inserting the following: `Costs for the National Area shall
 be provided in the same manner as costs for national recreation areas
 administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the National Park
 Service.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.