 
--H.R.3977--
H.R.3977
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To protect and conserve the continent of Antarctica, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the  United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Antarctic Protection Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) the Antarctic continent with its associated and dependent ecosystems
 is a distinctive environment providing a habitat for many unique species
 and offering a natural laboratory from which to monitor critical aspects
 of stratospheric ozone depletion and global climate change;
 (2) Antarctica is protected by a series of international agreements, including
 the Antarctic Treaty and associated recommendations, the Convention on the
 Conservation of Antarctic Seals, and the Convention on the Conservation
 of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, which are intended to conserve the
 renewable natural resources of Antarctica and to recognize the importance
 of Antarctica for the conduct of scientific research;
 (3) recurring and recent developments in Antarctica, including increased
 siting of scientific stations, poor waste disposal practices, oil spills,
 increased tourism, and the over-exploitation of marine living resources,
 have raised serious questions about the adequacy and implementation of
 existing agreements and domestic law to protect the Antarctic environment
 and its living marine resources;
 (4) the parties to the Antarctic Treaty have negotiated a Convention on
 the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resources Activities which the  United
 States has signed but not yet ratified;
 (5) the Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resources
 Activities does not guarantee the preservation of the fragile environment
 of Antarctica and could actually stimulate movement toward Antarctic mineral
 resource activity;
 (6) the exploitation of mineral resources in Antarctica could lead to
 additional degradation of the Antarctic environment, including increased
 risk of oil spills;
 (7) the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties have agreed to a voluntary
 ban on Antarctic mineral resource activities which needs to be made legally
 binding;
 (8) the level of scientific study, including necessary support facilities,
 has increased to the point that some scientific programs may be degrading
 the Antarctic environment; and
 (9) the planned special consultative meeting of parties to the Antarctic
 Treaty and the imminence of the thirtieth anniversary of the Antarctic
 Treaty provide opportunities for the United States to exercise leadership
 toward protection and sound management of Antarctica.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to--
 (1) strengthen substantially overall environmental protection of Antarctica;
 (2) prohibit prospecting, exploration, and development of Antarctic
 mineral resources by United States citizens and other persons subject to
 the jurisdiction of the United States;
 (3) urge other nations to join the United States in immediately negotiating
 one or more new agreements to provide an indefinite ban on all Antarctic
 mineral resource activities and comprehensive protection for Antarctica
 and its associated and dependent ecosystems; and
 (4) urge all nations to consider a permanent ban on Antarctic mineral
 resource activities.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act:
 (1) The term `Antarctica' means the area south of the Antarctic Convergence
 as defined in section 303(1) of the Antarctic Marine Living Resources
 Convention Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 2432).
 (2) The term `Antarctic mineral resource activity' means prospecting,
 exploration, or development in Antarctica of mineral resources, but does
 not include scientific research within the meaning of article III of the
 Antarctic Treaty, done at Washington on December 1, 1959.
 (3) The term `development' means any activity, including logistic support,
 which takes place following exploration, the purpose of which is the
 exploitation of specific mineral resource deposits, including processing,
 storage, and transport activities.
 (4) The term `exploration' means any activity, including logistic support,
 the purpose of which is the identification or evaluation of specific mineral
 resource deposits. The term includes exploratory drilling, dredging, and
 other surface or subsurface excavations required to determine the nature and
 size of mineral resource deposits and the feasibility of their development.
 (5) The term `mineral resources' means all nonliving natural nonrenewable
 resources, including fossil fuels, minerals, whether metallic or nonmetallic,
 but does not include ice, water, or snow.
 (6) The term `person' means any individual, corporation, partnership,
 trust, association, or any other entity existing or organized under the
 laws of the United States, or any officer, employee, agent, department,
 or other instrumentality of the Federal Government or of any State or
 political subdivision thereof.
 (7) The term `prospecting' means any activity, including logistic support,
 the purpose of which is the identification of mineral resource potential
 for possible exploration and development.
 (8) The term `Under Secretary' means the Under Secretary of Commerce for
 Oceans and Atmosphere.
SEC. 4. PROHIBITION OF ANTARCTIC MINERAL RESOURCE ACTIVITIES.
 Pending a new agreement among the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties
 in force for the United States, to which the Senate has given advice and
 consent or which is authorized by further legislation by the Congress,
 which provides an indefinite ban on Antarctic mineral resource activities,
 it is unlawful for any person to engage in, finance, or otherwise knowingly
 provide assistance to any Antarctic mineral resource activity.
SEC. 5. INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT.
 (a) It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should enter
 into negotiations with the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to conclude
 one or more new international agreements to--
 (1) conserve and protect permanently the natural environment of Antarctica
 and its associated and dependent ecosystems;
 (2) prohibit or ban indefinitely Antarctic mineral resource activities by
 all parties to the Antarctic Treaty;
 (3) grant Antarctica special protective status as a land of science dedicated
 to wilderness protection, international cooperation, and scientific research;
 (4) ensure that the results of all scientific investigations relating
 to geological processes and structures be made openly available to the
 international scientific community, as required by the Antarctic Treaty; and
 (5) include other comprehensive measures for the protection of the Antarctic
 environment.
 (b) It is the sense of Congress that any treaty or other international
 agreement submitted by the President to the Senate for its advice and consent
 to ratification relating to mineral resources or activities in Antarctica
 should be consistent with the purpose and provisions of this Act.
SEC. 6. ENFORCEMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- A violation of this Act or any regulation promulgated
 under this Act is deemed to be a violation of the Antarctic Marine Living
 Resources Convention Act (16 U.S.C. 2431-2444) and shall be enforced under
 that Act by the Under Secretary or another Federal official to whom the
 Under Secretary has delegated this responsibility.
 (b) PENALTY- If the Under Secretary determines that a person has violated
 section 4--
 (1) that person shall be ineligible to locate a mining claim under the
 mining laws of the United States; and
 (2) the Secretary of the Interior shall refuse to issue a patent under
 the mining laws of the United States, or a lease under the laws of the
 United States related to mineral or geothermal leasing, to any such person
 who attempts to perfect such patent or lease application after the Under
 Secretary has made such determination.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated--
 (1) to the Under Secretary not more than $1,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1991 and 1992 to carry out the purposes of this Act; and
 (2) to the Secretary of State not more than $500,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1991 and 1992 to carry out section 5 of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.