 
--H.R.4630--
H.R.4630
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to acquire and study certain lands
in the
State of New Mexico, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Baca Location No. 1 Land Acquisition and
 Study Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS.
 (a) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are to--
 (1) authorize the Secretary to acquire by purchase certain lands in the
 State of New Mexico to be added to the Santa Fe National Forest;
 (2) compensate Dunigan Enterprises for costs incurred as a result of certain
 Federal actions; and
 (3) provide for a study to determine possible Federal protection of certain
 lands in New Mexico known as `Baca Location No. 1'.
 (b) As used in this Act, the term--
 (1) `Baca Location No. 1' means the land owned by Dunigan Enterprises
 located in the Jemez Mountains west of Los Alamos, New Mexico, in Sandoval
 and Rio Arriba counties and consisting of approximately 100,000 acres, as
 generally depicted on the map entitled `1510--Santa Fe NF--S. 2521 Cochiti
 Land Exchange Act' and dated October, 1990;
 (2) `Dunigan Enterprises' means Dunigan Enterprises, Inc., a Texas
 corporation, and BL&C Co. and BL&C Co. No. 2, Texas Partnerships; and
 (3) `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
SEC. 3. ACQUISITION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to acquire by purchase with
 donated or appropriated funds the lands described in subsection (b). Upon
 acquiring the lands, the Secretary shall include them within the Santa Fe
 National Forest and shall administer them accordingly.
 (b) DESCRIPTION OF LANDS TO BE ACQUIRED- The lands to be acquired pursuant
 to subsection (a) consist of two parcels totaling approximately 36 acres,
 and are more specifically described as follows:
 (1) PARCEL 1- Beginning at Mile Point No. 11 on the south boundary of Baca
 Location No. 1; thence westerly along the south boundary of Baca Location
 No. 1 to its intersection with the constructed centerline of Forest
 Development Road 133; thence on a continuation of the south boundary of
 Baca Location No. 1, 33 feet; thence on an approximate bearing of N. 26«
 E., about 720 feet as scaled from the Forest Service's topographic map of
 the area, to the south boundary of the easement for New Mexico State Highway
 No. 4; thence in an easterly direction along the State Highway easement to
 its intersection with the south boundary of Baca Location No. 1; thence
 westerly along the south boundary of Baca Location No. 1 to the point of
 beginning, being Mile Point No. 11, containing approximately 27 acres, and
 subject to confirmation by formal survey and acceptable legal description
 and record acreage.
 (2) PARCEL 2- Beginning at Mile Point No. 10 on the south boundary of Baca
 Location No. 1; thence in a westerly direction along the south boundary of
 Baca Location No. 1, 423 feet to a point on the west side of the East Fork
 of the Rio Jemez; thence N. 38« E., 660 feet; thence N. 86« E., 170 feet;
 thence S. 70« E., 364 feet to the south boundary of Baca Location No. 1 to
 the point of beginning, being Mile Point No. 10, containing approximately
 9 acres, and subject to confirmation by formal survey and acceptable legal
 description and record acreage.
SEC. 4. COMPENSATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed,
 subject to the provisions of subsection (b), to pay a direct payment
 to Dunigan Enterprises not to exceed $1,633,527 out of any money in the
 Treasury not otherwise appropriated to compensate Dunigan Enterprises for
 costs incurred as a result of certain Federal actions involving a land
 exchange between the United States and Dunigan Enterprises in 1966.
 (b) CERTIFICATION- (1) The Secretary of the Treasury may make the payment
 described in subsection (a), only after the Secretary, acting through the
 Inspector General of the United States Department of Agriculture certifies
 that--
 (A) the sum accurately reflects the damages incurred by Dunigan Enterprises
 resulting from the 1966 land exchange in New Mexico between the United
 States and Dunigan Enterprises;
 (B) Dunigan Enterprises has executed a release of all claims relating to
 the real property known as the `Cochiti Properties', approximately 2,456.14
 acres as described in the quitclaim deed to the Baca Land and Cattle Company,
 et al., on September 25, 1966, as recorded in Volume 21, pages 361-363 of
 the Sandoval County, New Mexico records; and
 (C) Dunigan Enterprises has executed with the Department of Justice an
 appropriate joint stipulation for entry of an order of dismissal, with
 prejudice, of the pending litigation between Dunigan Enterprises and the
 United States, entitled Dunigan Enterprises, Inc. et al. v.  United States,
 No. 506-88L,  United States Claim Court.
 (2)(A) In making the verification pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary
 shall consider costs incurred by Dunigan Enterprises as a result of the
 1966 land exchange between the  United States and Dunigan Enterprises,
 including but not limited to foregone proceeds on sales contracts, and
 reasonable expenses for travel, telephone calls, legal services and other
 miscellaneous costs.
 (B) If the Secretary determines pursuant to the certification requirement
 required in paragraph (1) that Dunigan Enterprises has incurred damages of
 less than $1,633,527, then Dunigan Enterprises shall be paid such lesser
 amount pursuant to subsection (a).
SEC. 5. LAND OWNERSHIP ADJUSTMENT STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed to conduct a
 study of Baca Location No. 1 to address--
 (A) the scenic, geologic, recreational, timber, mineral, grazing, and other
 multiple use attributes of Baca Location No. 1; and
 (B) options for Federal acquisition of Baca Location No. 1, in whole or part,
 by purchase, donation, exchange, or otherwise, including the estimated cost
 of each option.
 (2) The Secretary shall complete the study within 2 full fiscal years after
 the date funds are made available for the study.
 (b) COOPERATION- (1) The Secretary shall prepare the study required by
 subsection (a) in cooperation with the owner of Baca Location No. 1,
 interested Indian tribes, the National Park Service, the  United States
 Fish and Wildlife Service, and other interested parties.
 (2) This Act shall not be construed to authorize entry upon Baca Location
 No. 1 by any person without the express permission of the landowner, and the
 Secretary shall make prior arrangements with the landowner for satisfactory
 access to Baca Location No. 1 for the purposes of the study.
 (c) TRANSMITTAL OF STUDY- Upon the completion of the study referred to in
 subsection (a), the Secretary shall transmit the results of such study,
 along with any legislative recommendations to the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources of the  United States Senate and the Committees on
 Interior and Insular Affairs and Agriculture of the  United States House
 of Representatives.
SEC. 6. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
 Section 110(a)(2) of the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 1984,
 Public Law 98-603 (98 Stat. 3159) is hereby amended to read as follows:
 `(2) The real property referred to in paragraph (1) is located in Lake
 Sumner State Park, in the State of New Mexico, and is more particularly
 described as follows: `all portions of sections 28 and 33 in Township 5
 North, Range 24 East, with an elevation of more than 4,208 feet above sea
 level. The acreage and legal description of such real property shall be
 determined by the Secretary, after consultation with Sumner Lake Corporation.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.