 
--H.R.4872--
H.R.4872
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the National Advisory Council on the Public Service.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Advisory Council on the Public
 Service Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) recognition of the services rendered by Federal employees (hereinafter
 in this Act referred to as `national public service') should be accorded
 a high and continuing place on the national agenda;
 (2) the National Commission on the Public Service, through its good works,
 has documented the need for greater advocacy on behalf of those performing
 national public service;
 (3) although public service is an honorable profession, members of the
 public do not always perceive it favorably;
 (4) serious obstacles often hinder the Government's efforts to recruit and
 retain the best and the brightest for national public service;
 (5) just as the public has a right to expect Federal employees to adhere to
 the highest standards of excellence and ethicality, so Federal employees
 have a right to expect an atmosphere of trust and respect, and a sense of
 accomplishment from their work; and
 (6) an advisory council is needed to provide the President and the Congress
 with bipartisan, objective assessments of, and recommendations concerning,
 the Federal workforce.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There shall be established a council to be known as the National Advisory
 Council on the Public Service (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Council').
SEC. 4. FUNCTIONS.
 The Council shall--
 (1) regularly assess the state of the Federal workforce;
 (2) in conjunction with the President, the Congress, and the Judiciary, seek
 to attract individuals of the highest caliber to careers involving national
 public service, and encourage them and others of similar distinction who
 are already part of the Federal workforce to make a continuing commitment
 to national public service;
 (3) promote better public understanding of the role of Federal employees
 in implementing Government programs and policies, and otherwise seek to
 improve the public perception of Federal employees;
 (4) encourage efforts to build student interest in performing national
 public service (whether those efforts are undertaken at the community level,
 in the classroom, or otherwise); and
 (5) develop methods for improving motivation and excellence among Federal
 employees.
SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- The Council shall be composed of 15 members
 as follows:
 (1) 2 Members of the Senate, 1 of whom shall be appointed by the majority
 leader of the Senate and the other of whom shall be appointed by the minority
 leader of the Senate.
 (2) 2 Members of the House of Representatives, 1 of whom shall be appointed
 by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the other of whom shall
 be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
 (3) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 (or his delegate).
 (4) 10 individuals appointed by the President--
 (A) 4 of whom shall be chosen from among officers serving in the executive
 branch;
 (B) 1 of whom shall be chosen from among career employees in the civil
 service;
 (C) 1 of whom shall be a Federal employee who is a member of a labor
 organization (as defined by section 7103(a)(4) of title 5, United States
 Code); and
 (D) 4 of whom shall be chosen from among members of the public who do not
 hold any Government office or position.
 (b) CONTINUATION OF MEMBERSHIP- If any member of the Council whose appointment
 is based on that individual's holding a Government office or position leaves
 such office or position, or if any member of the Council under subsection
 (a)(4)(D) is appointed or elected to a Government office or position, that
 individual may continue to serve as such a member for not longer than the
 90-day period beginning on the date of leaving that office or position,
 or entering into that office or position, as the case may be.
 (c) TERMS- Members of the Council shall be appointed for the life of the
 Council.
 (d) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the manner in
 which the original appointment was made.
 (e) COMPENSATION- (1) Members of the Council shall not be entitled to pay
 (or, in the case of members holding any Government office or position,
 pay in addition to any to which they are otherwise entitled for service in
 such office or position) by virtue of membership on the Council.
 (2) While serving away from their homes or regular places of business in
 the performance of duties for the Council, members shall be allowed travel
 expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner
 as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons
 employed intermittently in Government service.
 (f) QUORUM- Eight members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
 (g) CHAIRMAN- The Chairman of the Council shall be designated by the
 President from among the members appointed under subsection (a)(4)(D).
 (h) MEETINGS- The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a
 majority of its members, and shall meet on at least a quarterly basis.
SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS.
 (a) DIRECTOR- With the approval of the Council, the Chairman may appoint a
 Director and fix the pay of such Director at a rate not to exceed the rate
 for level IV of the Executive Schedule. The Director shall be a person who,
 by reason of demonstrated ability in the area of management, government,
 or public administration, is especially well qualified to serve.
 (b) STAFF- With the approval of the Chairman, the Director may appoint and
 fix the pay of such personnel as may be necessary to carry out the functions
 of the Council. The staff of the Council shall be appointed subject to the
 provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
 competitive service, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions
 of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
 classification and General Schedule pay rates.
 (c) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Council may procure temporary or intermittent
 services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at
 rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum
 rate payable under the General Schedule.
 (d) STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Upon the request of the Chairman, the head
 of a Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis,
 any personnel of such agency to the Council to assist the Council in carrying
 out its functions under this Act.
SEC. 7. POWERS.
 (a) MAILS- The Council may use the United States mails in the same manner
 and under the same conditions as other Federal agencies.
 (b) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES- The Administrator of General Services
 shall provide to the Council, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative
 support services as the Council may request.
 (c) OFFICIAL DATA- The Council may secure directly from any Federal agency
 information necessary to carry out its functions under this Act. Each such
 agency is authorized and directed to furnish, to the extent permitted by law,
 any information requested by the Council.
 (d) GIFTS- The Council--
 (1) may accept money and other property donated, bequeathed, or devised to
 the Council without condition or restriction (other than that it be used
 to carry out the work of the Council); and
 (2) may use, sell, or otherwise dispose of any such property to carry
 out its functions under this Act, except that, upon the termination of
 the Council, any such property shall be disposed of in accordance with
 applicable provisions of law governing the disposal of Federal property.
SEC. 8. REPORTS.
 The Council shall transmit to the President and each House of the Congress--
 (1) within 1 and 2 years, respectively, after the date on which the Council
 first meets, reports containing its preliminary findings and recommendations;
 and
 (2) within 3 years after the date on which the Council first meets, a final
 report containing a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions
 of the Council, together with its recommendations for such legislation or
 administrative actions as it considers appropriate.
SEC. 9. COMMENCEMENT; TERMINATION.
 (a) COMMENCEMENT- Appointments under section 5 shall be made, and the Council
 shall first meet, within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (b) TERMINATION- The Council shall cease to exist upon transmitting its
 final report under section 8(2).
SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION.
 There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.