 
--H.R.5313--
H.R.5313
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
Making appropriations for military construction for the Department of Defense
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated,
 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
 fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, for military construction functions
 administered by the Department of Defense, and for other purposes, namely:
Military Construction, Army
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
 property for the Army as currently authorized by law, and for construction
 and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander in
 Chief, $746,137,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided,
 That of this amount, not to exceed $89,577,000 shall be available for study,
 planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law,
 unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are
 necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations
 of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Army' under Public Law 99-173, $1,900,000 is hereby rescinded: Provided
 further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction, Army'
 under Public Law 99-500 and Public Law 99-591, $14,905,000 is hereby
 rescinded: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military
 Construction, Army' under Public Law 100-202, $29,030,000 is hereby rescinded:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Army' under Public Law 100-447, $26,910,000  is hereby rescinded: Provided
 further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction, Army'
 under Public Law 101-148, $44,000,000  is hereby rescinded.
Military Construction, Navy
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary or
 permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, and real property
 for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including personnel in the
 Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal services necessary
 for the purposes of this appropriation, $1,132,606,000, to remain available
 until September 30, 1995: Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed
 $74,451,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, architect and
 engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense
 determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and
 notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his
 determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further, That of the funds
 appropriated for `Military Construction, Navy' under Public Law 101-148,
 $6,200,000   is hereby rescinded.
Military Construction, Air Force
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
 property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, $949,094,000
 and rescission of $26,000,000 of the funds appropriated for `Military
 Construction, Air Force' under Public Law 101-148 in addition to the
 rescissions listed subsequently in this paragraph, to remain available
 until September 30, 1995: Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed
 $94,241,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, architect and
 engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense
 determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes
 and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress
 of his determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further, That of
 the funds appropriated for `Military Construction, Air Force' under Public
 Law 100-447, $4,700,000  is hereby rescinded: Provided further, That of the
 funds appropriated for `Military Construction, Air Force' under Public Law
 101-148, $20,690,000  is hereby rescinded: Provided further, That, herein
 and hereafter, the Ballistic Missile Organization shall not be relocated
 from Norton Air Force Base, California.
Military Construction, Defense Agencies
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real property
 for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the
 military departments), as currently authorized by law, $601,288,000, to
 remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided, That such amounts of
 this appropriation as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be
 transferred to such appropriations of the Department of Defense available
 for military construction as he may designate, to be merged with and to
 be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the
 appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the
 amount appropriated, not to exceed $94,285,000 shall be available for study,
 planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law,
 unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are
 necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations
 of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Defense Agencies' under Public Law 100-447, $35,578,000  is hereby rescinded:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Defense Agencies' under Public Law 101-148, $32,541,000  is hereby rescinded.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure
 For the United States share of the cost of North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 Infrastructure programs for the acquisition and construction of military
 facilities and installations (including international military headquarters)
 and for related expenses for the collective defense of the North Atlantic
 Treaty Area as authorized in military construction Acts and section 2806
 of title 10, United States Code, $192,700,000, to remain available until
 expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise
 available under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure
 Account in this or any other Act may be obligated for planning, design,
 or construction of military facilities or family housing to support the
 relocation of the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing to Crotone, Italy.
Military Construction, Army National Guard
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the Army National Guard,
 and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $313,224,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1995.
Military Construction, Air National Guard
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the Air National Guard,
 and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $180,560,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1995.
Military Construction, Army Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
 of facilities for the training and administration of the Army Reserve as
 authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
 construction authorization Acts, $77,426,000, to remain available until
 September 30, 1995.
Military Construction, Naval Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the reserve components of
 the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $80,307,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1995.
Military Construction, Air Force Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
 of facilities for the training and administration of the Air Force Reserve
 as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
 construction authorization Acts, $38,600,000, to remain available until
 September 30, 1995.
Family Housing, Army
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, including
 acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and alteration
 and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor
 construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as
 authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $74,300,000; for Operation
 and maintenance, and for debt payment, $1,463,967,000; in all $1,538,267,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated
 for `Family Housing, Army' under Public Law 100-202, $4,264,000 is hereby
 rescinded: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Family
 Housing, Army' under Public Law 100-447, $8,400,000 is hereby rescinded.
Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
 For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for construction,
 including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and
 alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment,
 leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance
 premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $174,917,000;
 for Operation and maintenance, and for debt payment, $691,101,000; in all
 $866,018,000: Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall
 remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That of the
 funds appropriated for `Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps' under Public
 Law 101-148, $11,037,000 is hereby rescinded.
Family Housing, Air Force
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, including
 acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and alteration
 and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor
 construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as
 authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $162,957,000;  for Operation
 and maintenance, and for debt payment, $771,442,000; in all $934,399,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for
 `Family Housing, Air Force' under Public Law 100-202, $1,941,000 is hereby
 rescinded: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Family
 Housing, Air Force' under Public Law 100-447, $167,000  is hereby rescinded:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Family Housing,
 Air Force' under Public Law 101-148, $43,856,000  is hereby rescinded.
Family Housing, Defense Agencies
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of
 the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for
 construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion,
 extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, leasing, and
 minor construction, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction,
 $500,000; for Operation and maintenance, $20,514,000; in all $21,014,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated
 for `Family Housing, Defense Agencies' under Public Law 101-148, $300,000
 is hereby rescinded.
Homeowners Assistance Fund, Defense
 For use in the Homeowners Assistance Fund established pursuant to section
 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of
 1966 (Public Law 89-754, as amended), $5,100,000, to remain available
 until expended.
Base Realignment and Closure Account
 For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established
 by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base
 Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526), $998,100,000, to remain
 available for obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided, That none of
 these funds may be obligated for base realignment and closure activities
 under Public Law 100-526 which would cause the Department's $2,400,000,000
 cost estimate for military construction and family housing related to the
 Base Realignment and Closure Program to be exceeded: Provided further, That
 $100,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely
 for environmental restoration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 SEC. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be expended
 for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for work, where cost
 estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed within the United States, except
 Alaska, without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense
 setting forth the reasons therefor.
 SEC. 102. Funds herein appropriated to the Department of Defense for
 construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
 SEC. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
 may be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department of
 Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized by section
 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized therein are
 certified as important to the national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
 SEC. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to begin
 construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which
 specific appropriations have not been made.
 SEC. 105. No part of the funds provided in this Act shall be used for
 purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 per centum of the value
 as determined by the Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering
 Command, except (a) where there is a determination of value by a Federal
 court, or (b) purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee,
 or (c) where the estimated value is less than $25,000, or (d) as otherwise
 determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
 SEC. 106. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be used to (1)
 acquire land, (2) provide for site preparation, or (3) install utilities for
 any family housing, except housing for which funds have been made available
 in annual military construction appropriation Acts.
 SEC. 107. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for minor construction
 may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one base or installation
 to another, without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
 SEC. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for
 the procurement of steel for any construction project or activity for which
 American steel producers, fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied
 the opportunity to compete for such steel procurement.
 SEC. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense for
 military construction or family housing during the current fiscal year may
 be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
 SEC. 110. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to initiate
 a new installation overseas without prior notification to the Committees
 on Appropriations.
 SEC. 111. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be obligated for
 architect and engineer contracts estimated by the Government to exceed
 $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan or in any NATO member
 country, unless such contracts are awarded to United States firms or United
 States firms in joint venture with host nation firms.
 SEC. 112. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for military construction
 in the United States territories and possessions in the Pacific and on
 Kwajalein Island may be used to award any contract estimated by the Government
 to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor: Provided, That this section
 shall not be applicable to contract awards for which the lowest responsive and
 responsible bid of a United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive
 and responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 per centum.
 SEC. 113. The Secretary of Defense is to inform the Committees on
 Appropriations and the Committees on Armed Services of the plans and scope
 of any proposed military exercise involving United States personnel thirty
 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either
 temporary or permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 114. Unexpended balances in the Military Family Housing Management
 Account established pursuant to section 2831 of title 10, United States Code,
 as well as any additional amounts which would otherwise be transferred to
 the Military Family Housing Management Account during  fiscal year 1991,
 shall be transferred to the appropriations for Family Housing provided in
 this Act, as determined by the Secretary of Defense, based on the sources
 from which the funds were derived, and shall be available for the same
 purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which they
 have been transferred.
 SEC. 115. Not more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in this Act
 which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year shall be
 obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year.
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 116. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
 in prior years are hereby made available for construction authorized for
 each such military department by the authorizations enacted into law during
 the second session of the One Hundred First Congress.
 SEC. 117. The Secretary of Defense is to provide the Committees on
 Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives with a report
 by February 15, 1991, containing details of the specific actions proposed to
 be taken by the Department of Defense during fiscal year 1991 to encourage
 other member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Japan
 to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and
 the United States.
 SEC. 118. For military construction or family housing projects that are being
 completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for obligation, expired
 or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of associated supervision,
 inspection, overhead, engineering and design on those projects and on
 subsequent claims, if any.
 SEC. 119. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds appropriated
 to a military department or defense agency for the construction of military
 projects may be obligated for a military construction project or contract,
 or for any portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the
 end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for
 such project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project (1)
 are obligated from funds available for military construction projects, and
 (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount
 by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.
 SEC. 120. Of the funds appropriated in this Act for Operations and maintenance
 of Family Housing, no more than $16,000,000 may be obligated for contract
 cleaning of family housing units.
 SEC. 121. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the
 design, construction, operation or maintenance of new family housing units
 in the Republic of Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied
 tours after June 6, 1988.
 SEC. 122. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for planning and design
 activities may be used to initiate design of the Pentagon Annex.
 SEC. 123. None of the funds appropriated in this Act, except those necessary
 to exercise construction management provisions under section 2807 of title
 10, United States Code, may be used for study, planning, design, or architect
 and engineer services related to the relocation of Yongsan Garrison, Korea.
 SEC. 124. None of the funds herein or heretofore appropriated for Military
 Construction and Family Housing are available to fund costs associated with
 military operations in Panama known as Operation Just Cause, notwithstanding
 transfer authority contained in section 211 of Public Law 101-302.
 SEC. 125. The Congress disapproves the deferrals relating to the Department of
 Defense as set forth in the message from the Comptroller General transmitted
 to the Congress on June 28, 1990 (H. Doc. 101-210).
 SEC. 126. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary
 of the Army shall transfer, no later than September 30, 1991, and without
 reimbursement, to the Secretary of the Interior the real property, including
 improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 7,600 acres of Fort Meade,
 Maryland, located generally south of Maryland Route 198 extended and the
 power-line right-of-way, as determined under subsection (d).
 (b) The Secretary of the Interior shall administer the property transferred
 pursuant to subsection (a) consistent with wildlife conservation purposes and
 shall provide for the continued use of the property by Federal agencies to
 the extent such agencies are using it on the date of the enactment of this
 Act, including activities of the Department of Defense that are consistent
 with the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission.
 (c) The Secretary of the Interior may not convey, lease, transfer, declare
 excess or surplus, or otherwise dispose of any portion of the property
 transferred pursuant to subsection (a) unless approved by law.
 (d) The exact acreage and legal description of the property to be
 transferred under this section shall be determined by a survey satisfactory
 to the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service within the
 Department of the Interior, after consultation with the Department of the
 Army and appropriate State and local government officials.
 SEC. 127. (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Subject to subsections (b) through (e),
 the Secretary of the Army may convey to the city of Tacoma, Washington,
 all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of
 real property, including improvements thereon, located at 3009 North Star
 Street, Tacoma, Washington, consisting of approximately 6.7 acres.
 (2) The conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be made in consideration for a
 50-year leasehold interest in and to Pier 23, Port of Tacoma, made available
 by the State of Washington to the Department of the Army.
 (b) CONDITIONS OF CONVEYANCE- The conveyance authorized by subsection (a)
 shall be subject to the following conditions:
 (1) The property conveyed shall be used for public purposes.
 (2) The Secretary may reserve to the United States (and shall include in the
 instrument of conveyance) such easements and other interest in the property
 conveyed pursuant to this section as the Secretary determines necessary or
 convenient for the operations, activities, and functions of the United States.
 (c) REVERSION- If the Secretary determines at any time that the property
 conveyed pursuant to this section is not being used for the purposes specified
 in subsection (b)(1), all right, title, and interest in and to the property
 (including improvements thereon) shall revert to the United States and the
 United States shall have the right of immediate entry thereon.
 (d) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY- The exact acreage and legal description of the
 property to be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey
 satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by
 the city.
 (e) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary may require such additional
 terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under this section
 as the Secretary determines appropriate to protect the interests of the
 United States.
 SEC. 128. None of the funds appropriated in this Act, except for North
 Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure funds, may be used for planning,
 design, or construction of military facilities or family housing to support
 the relocation of the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing from Spain to another
 country.
 SEC. 129. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1991 pay raises for
 programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the levels appropriated
 in this Act.
 SEC. 130. (a) CONVEYANCE- (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2), (3),
 and (4), and subject to subsections (c) and (g), the Secretary of the Army
 shall convey to the University of Utah all right, title, and interest
 of the United States in and to the land comprising Fort Douglas, Utah,
 together with improvements thereon.
 (2) The Secretary shall except from the land conveyed under paragraph (1)
 such land, not in excess of 64 acres, and improvements thereon as may be
 necessary for the Army to continue conducting Army Reserve activities at
 the Fort Douglas location.
 (3) The Secretary shall also except from the land conveyed under paragraph
 (1) the land at Fort Douglas constituting the Fort Douglas Post Cemetery,
 consisting of approximately four acres.
 (4) In connection with the land retained for Army Reserve activities and the
 land constituting the Army Post Cemetery, the Secretary shall reserve to the
 United States in the land conveyed such rights-of-way and other easements
 as may be necessary for ingress to and egress from the land retained.
 (b) CONSIDERATION- (1) The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be made only
 on the condition that the State of Utah and the University of Utah waive any
 entitlements that have not been exercised on behalf of the University of
 Utah before the date of the enactment of this section and that may be due
 to the State of Utah or the University of Utah on behalf of the University
 of Utah under--
 (A) section 3 of the Act entitled `An Act to establish the office of
 Surveyor-General of Utah, and to grant Land for School and University
 Purposes', approved February 21, 1855 (10 Stat. 611); and
 (B) sections 8 and 12 of the Act entitled `An Act to enable the people of
 Utah to form a constitution and State government, and to be admitted into
 the Union on equal footing with the original States', approved July 16,
 1894 (28 Stat. 110).
 (2) The waiver referred to in paragraph (1) shall be executed in such
 manner as the Secretary of the Army, after consultation with the Attorney
 General of the United States, determines necessary to effectively waive
 any unexercised entitlements under those laws.
 (c) CONDITION- (1) The conveyance provided for in subsection (a) may be
 made only on condition that--
 (A) the State of Utah agrees to maintain and operate, as provided in paragraph
 (2), the Army museum located on the land conveyed to the University of Utah
 pursuant to this section; and
 (B) the University of Utah agrees--
 (i) to maintain and operate, as provided in paragraph (2), the Army chapel
 and other historical buildings located on the land referred to in subparagraph
 (A); and
 (ii) to preserve and maintain, as provided in paragraph (2), the parade
 grounds that are a part of the land referred to in subparagraph (A).
 (2) The Army museum, Army chapel, and other historical buildings referred
 to in paragraph (1) shall be maintained and operated, and the parade
 grounds referred to in that paragraph shall be preserved and maintained,
 in a manner consistent with Federal laws and regulations pertaining to the
 preservation of historical sites, buildings, and monuments, as specified
 by the Secretary of the Interior.
 (d) REVERSIONARY RIGHT- If the University of Utah uses the land conveyed
 pursuant to subsection (a) for other than educational or research purposes,
 all right, title, and interest in and to such land shall automatically
 revert to the United States and the United States shall have the right of
 immediate entry thereon.
 (e) DEADLINE FOR CONVEYANCE- The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be
 made not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section.
 (f) JOINT USE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS- The Secretary may enter into an agreement
 with the University of Utah under which the Army and the University would--
 (1) jointly use the existing utility systems located at Fort Douglas at
 the time of the conveyance provided for under subsection (a);
 (2) equitably share the cost of maintaining, operating, and replacing
 (as necessary) the systems; and
 (3) pay on a pro rata basis for the utilities consumed by each of the parties.
 (g) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary may require such additional
 terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance provided for under
 subsection (a) as the Secretary considers necessary to protect the interests
 of the United States.
 (h) ADDITIONAL EXCESS LAND- In the event that any lands constituting Fort
 Douglas, Utah, that are not conveyed pursuant to subsection (a) are declared
 excess to the needs of the Army after the date of the conveyance provided for
 in that subsection, the Secretary shall convey such lands to the University
 of Utah. Any lands conveyed pursuant to this subsection shall be conveyed
 subject to a reversionary clause in favor of the United States as provided
 in subsection (d).
PAYMENT OF CLAIMS BY UNITED STATES NATIONALS AGAINST IRAQ
 SEC. 131. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President
 is authorized--
 (1) to vest title in a portion of the property in which transactions
 have been blocked pursuant to Executive Order 12722 of August 3, 1990,
 which portion shall be equal to the total amount of obligations owed to
 United States Government (including the Department of Agriculture and the
 Commodity Credit Corporation) and United States nationals for which Iraq
 has suspended repayment; and
 (2) to liquidate such property and pay United States creditors the amount
 of the obligations referred to under paragraph (1).
 (b) In the event that property liquidated under subsection (a)(2) is less
 than the total amount of obligations described in subsection (a)(1), then
 obligations the repayment of which is guaranteed by the Commodity Credit
 Corporation shall be given priority in payment of creditors.
ANTITERRORISM ACT OF 1990
 SEC. 132. (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Antiterrorism
 Act of 1990'.
 (b) TERRORISM- Chapter 113A of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in section 2331 by striking subsection (d) and redesignating subsection
 (e) as subsection (d);
 (2) by redesignating section 2331 as 2332 and striking the caption for
 section 2331 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 2332. Criminal penalties';
 (3) by inserting before section 2332 as redesignated the following:
`Sec. 2331. Definitions
 `As used in this chapter--
 `(1) the term `international terrorism' means activities that--
 `(A) involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human life that are a
 violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or
 that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of
 the United States or of any State;
 `(B) appear to be intended--
 `(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
 `(ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
 `(iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping;
 and
 `(C) occur primarily outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United
 States, or transcend national boundaries in terms of the means by which they
 are accomplished, the persons they appear intended to intimidate or coerce,
 or the locale in which their perpetrators operate or seek asylum;
 `(2) the term `national of the United States' has the meaning given such
 term in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
 `(3) the term `person' means any individual or entity capable of holding
 a legal or beneficial interest in property; and
 `(4) the term `act of war' means any act occurring in the course of--
 `(A) declared war;
 `(B) armed conflict, whether or not war has been declared, between two or
 more nations; or
 `(C) armed conflict between military forces of any origin.';
 (4) by adding immediately after section 2332 as redesignated the following
 new sections:
`Sec. 2333. Civil remedies
 `(a) ACTION AND JURISDICTION- Any national of the United States injured
 in his person, property, or business by reason of an act of international
 terrorism, or his estate, survivors, or heirs, may sue therefor in any
 appropriate district court of the United States and shall recover threefold
 the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including attorney's fees.
 `(b) ESTOPPED UNDER UNITED STATES LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered
 in favor of the United States in any criminal proceeding under section 1116,
 1201, 1203, or 2332 of this title or section 1472 (i), (k), (l), (n), or
 (r) of title 49 App. shall estop the defendant from denying the essential
 allegations of the criminal offense in any subsequent civil proceeding
 under this section.
 `(c) ESTOPPED UNDER FOREIGN LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered in favor
 of any foreign state in any criminal proceeding shall, to the extent that
 such judgment or decree may be accorded full faith and credit under the law of
 the United States, estop the defendant from denying the essential allegations
 of the criminal offense in any subsequent civil proceeding under this section.
`Sec. 2334. Jurisdiction and venue
 `(a) GENERAL VENUE- Any civil action under section 2333 of this title against
 any person may be instituted in the district court of the United States for
 any district where any plaintiff resides or where any defendant resides or
 is served, or has an agent. Process in such a civil action may be served
 in any district where the defendant resides, is found, or has an agent.
 `(b) SPECIAL MARITIME OR TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION- If the actions giving rise
 to the claim occurred within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction
 of the United States, as defined in section 7 of this title, then any civil
 action under section 2333 of this title against any person may be instituted
 in the district court of the United States for any district in which any
 plaintiff resides or the defendant resides, is served, or has an agent.
 `(c) SERVICE ON WITNESSES- A witness in a civil action brought under section
 2333 of this title may be served in any district where the witness resides,
 is found, or has an agent.
 `(d) CONVENIENCE OF THE FORUM- The district court shall not dismiss any
 action brought under section 2333 of this title on the grounds of the
 inconvenience or inappropriateness of the forum chosen, unless--
 `(1) the action may be maintained in a foreign court that has jurisdiction
 over the subject matter and over all the defendants;
 `(2) that foreign court is significantly more convenient and appropriate; and
 `(3) that foreign court offers a remedy which is substantially the same as
 the one available in the courts of the United States.
`Sec. 2335. Limitation of actions
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), a suit for recovery of damages
 under section 2333 of this title shall not be maintained unless commenced
 within 3 years from the date the cause of action accrued.
 `(b) CALCULATION OF PERIOD- The time of the absence of the defendant from
 the United States or from any jurisdiction in which the same or a similar
 action arising from the same facts may be maintained by the plaintiff,
 or any concealment of his whereabouts, shall not be reckoned within this
 period of limitation.
`Sec. 2336. Other limitations
 `No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this title for injury
 or loss by reason of an act of war.
`Sec. 2337. Suits against government officials
 `No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this title against--
 `(1) the United States, an agency of the United States, or an officer
 or employee of the United States or any agency thereof acting within his
 official capacity or under color of legal authority; or
 `(2) a foreign state, an agency of a foreign state, or an officer or employee
 of a foreign state or an agency thereof acting within his official capacity
 or under color of legal authority.
`Sec. 2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction
 `The district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction
 over an action brought under this chapter.'; and
 (5) by amending the table of sections to read as follows:
`Chapter 113A--Terrorism
`Sec.
`2331. Definitions.
`2332. Criminal penalties.
`2333. Civil remedies.
`2334. Jurisdiction and venue.
`2335. Limitation of actions.
`2336. Other limitations.
`2337. Suits against government officials.
`2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction.'.
 (c) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of part 1, title 18, United
 States Code, is amended by striking:
2331.'
and inserting in lieu thereof:
2331.'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section
 shall apply to any pending case and any cause of action arising on or after
 3 years before the date of enactment of this section.
 This Act may be cited as the `Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.