 
--H.R.644--
H.R.644
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act by designating segments of the East
Fork of the Jemez and Pecos Rivers in New Mexico as components of the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `East Fork of the Jemez River and the Pecos
 River Wild and Scenic Rivers Addition Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS.
 Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (82 Stat. 906; 16
 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end:
 `( ) EAST FORK OF JEMEZ, NEW MEXICO- The 11-mile segment from the Santa Fe
 National Forest boundary to its confluence with the Rio San Antonio; to be
 administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following classifications:
 `(A) the 2-mile segment from the Santa Fe National Forest boundary to
 the second crossing of State Highway 4, near Las Conchas Trailhead, as a
 recreational river; and
 `(B) the 4-mile segment from the second crossing of State Highway 4, near Las
 Conchas Trailhead, to the third crossing of State Highway 4, approximately
 one and one-quarter miles upstream from Jemez Falls, as a wild river; and
 `(C) the 5-mile segment from the third crossing of State Highway 4,
 approximately one and one-quarter miles upstream from Jemez Falls, to its
 confluence with the Rio San Antonio, as a scenic river.
After the enactment of this paragraph, Federal lands within the boundaries of
the segments designated under this paragraph or which constitute the bed or
bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the ordinary highwater mark
on each side of such segments are withdrawn, subject to valid existing rights,
from all forms of appropriation under the mining laws and from operation of the
mineral leasing laws of the United States, and no patent may be issued for the
surface estate with respect to any mining claim located on such lands. Nothing
in this paragraph shall be construed as precluding mining operations on any
valid existing claim, subject to applicable regulations under section 9.
 `( ) PECOS RIVER, NEW MEXICO- The 20.5-mile segment from its headwaters to
 the townsite of Tererro; to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 in the following classifications:
 `(A) the 13.5-mile segment from its headwaters to the Pecos Wilderness
 boundary, as a wild river; and
 `(B) the 7-mile segment from the Pecos Wilderness boundary to the townsite
 of Tererro, as a recreational river.
After the enactment of this paragraph, Federal lands within the boundaries of
the segments designated under this paragraph or which constitute the bed or
bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the ordinary highwater mark
on each side of such segments are withdrawn, subject to valid existing rights,
from all forms of appropriation under the mining laws and from operation of the
mineral leasing laws of the United States, and no patent may be issued for the
surface estate with respect to any mining claim located on such lands. Nothing
in this paragraph shall be construed as precluding mining operations on any
valid existing claim, subject to applicable regulations under section 9.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.