 
--H.R.24--
H.R.24
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 and the National School Lunch Act
to revise and extend certain authorities contained in such Acts, and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Child Nutrition and WIC
 Reauthorization Act of 1989'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Effective date.
TITLE I--PROGRAMS UNDER THE NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT AND THE CHILD NUTRITION
ACT OF 1966
Part A--Programs Under the National School Lunch Act
Sec. 101. Types of milk to be included in school lunches.
Sec. 102. Extension of summer food service program for children.
Sec. 103. Extension of commodity distribution program.
Sec. 104. Repeal of National Advisory Council.
Sec. 105. Child care food program.
Sec. 106. Meal supplements for children in afterschool care.
Sec. 107. Pilot projects.
Sec. 108. Reduction of paperwork.
Sec. 109. Training, technical assistance, and food service management
institute.
Sec. 110. Compliance and accountability.
Sec. 111. Information on income eligibility.
Sec. 112. Nutrition guidance for child nutrition programs.
Part B--Programs Under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
Sec. 121. Expansion of school breakfast program.
Sec. 122. State administrative expenses.
Sec. 123. Additional activities and requirements with respect to special
supplemental food program for women, infants, and children.
Sec. 124. Nutrition education and training.
Part C--Cross-Program Provision
Sec. 131. Determination of total commodity assistance for the school lunch
and child care food programs.
TITLE II--PAPERWORK REDUCTION AMENDMENTS
Part A--Reduction of Paperwork Under the National School Lunch Act
Sec. 201. Permanency of State-local agreements for carrying out the school
lunch program.
Sec. 202. Income documentation requirements.
Sec. 203. Reports to State educational agencies.
Sec. 204. 2-year applications under child care food program.
Sec. 205. Pilot projects for alternative counting methods.
Part B--Reduction of Paperwork Under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
Sec. 211. State-local agreements for carrying out the special milk program.
Sec. 212. Permanency of State-local agreements for carrying out the school
breakfast program.
Sec. 213. Paperwork reduction requirements under the special supplemental
food program for women, infants, and children.
Sec. 214. Updating of plans for nutrition education and training.
TITLE III--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
Part A--Amendments to the National School Lunch Act
Sec. 301. Apportionments to States.
Sec. 302. Direct Federal expenditures.
Sec. 303. Payments to States.
Sec. 304. State disbursement to schools.
Sec. 305. Nutritional and other program requirements.
Sec. 306. Miscellaneous provisions and definitions.
Sec. 307. Summer food service program for children.
Sec. 308. Repeal of obsolete provision relating to temporary emergency
assistance.
Sec. 309. Election to receive cash payments.
Sec. 310. Child care food program.
Sec. 311. Pilot projects.
Sec. 312. General amendments.
Part B--Amendments to the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
Sec. 321. Special milk program authorization.
Sec. 322. School breakfast program authorization.
Sec. 323. Regulations.
Sec. 324. Appropriations for administrative expense.
Sec. 325. Miscellaneous provisions and definitions.
Sec. 326. Special supplemental food program.
Sec. 327. Nutrition education and training.
SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the amendments made by this Act
 shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE I--PROGRAMS UNDER THE NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT AND THE CHILD NUTRITION
ACT OF 1966
PART A--PROGRAMS UNDER THE NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT
SEC. 101. TYPES OF MILK TO BE INCLUDED IN SCHOOL LUNCHES.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS- Section 9(a) of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)), as similarly amended first by section 322
 of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained
 in Public Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-361), later by section 322 of the
 School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-364), and later by section 4202 of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to
 read as if only the latest amendment was enacted.
 (b) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Paragraph (2) of section 9(a) of the National School
 Lunch Act (as amended by subsection (a) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 1758(a))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) Lunches served by schools participating in the school lunch program
 under this Act shall offer students fluid whole milk and fluid unflavored
 lowfat milk.'.
SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 13 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by amending subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3) to read as follows:
 `(C)(i) conduct a regularly scheduled food service for children from areas
 in which poor economic conditions exist;
 `(ii) conduct a regularly scheduled food service primarily for homeless
 children; or
 `(iii) qualify as camps; and';
 (B) in paragraph (4)--
 (i) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (D);
 (ii) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting
 `; and'; and
 (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) private nonprofit organizations eligible under paragraph (7).';
 (C) in paragraph (7)--
 (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), private nonprofit organizations,
 as defined in subparagraph (B) (other than organizations eligible under
 paragraph (1)), shall be eligible for the program under the same terms and
 conditions as other service institutions.';
 (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
 (I) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
 `(i)(I) serve a total of not more than 2,500 children per day at not more than
 5 sites in any urban area, with not more than 300 children being served at
 any 1 site (or, with a waiver granted by the State under standards developed
 by the Secretary, not more than 500 children being served at any 1 site); or
 `(II) serve a total of not more than 2,500 children per day at not more than
 20 sites in any rural area, with not more than 300 children being served at
 any 1 site (or, with a waiver granted by the State under standards developed
 by the Secretary, not more than 500 children being served at any 1 site);';
 (II) in clause (ii), by inserting `or a school participating in the school
 lunch program under this Act' after `university)'; and
 (III) in clause (v), by inserting `or families' after `children'; and
 (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), no private nonprofit organization
 (other than organizations eligible under paragraph (1)) may participate in
 the program in an area where a school food authority or a local, municipal,
 or county government participated in the program before such organization
 applied to participate until the expiration of the 1-year period beginning
 on the date that such school food authority or local, municipal, or county
 government terminated its participation in the program.
 `(ii) Clause (i) shall not apply if the appropriate State agency or regional
 office of the Department of Agriculture (whichever administers the program
 in the area concerned), after consultation with the school food authority
 or local, municipal, or county government concerned, determines that such
 school food authority or local, municipal, or county government would
 have discontinued its participation in the program regardless of whether a
 private nonprofit organization was available to participate in the program
 in such area.';
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any higher education
 institution that receives reimbursements under the program for meals and meal
 supplements served to low-income children under the National Youth Sports
 Program is eligible to receive reimbursements for not more than 2 meals or 1
 meal and 1 meal supplement per day for not more than 30 days for each child
 participating in a National Youth Sports Program operated by such institution
 during the months other than May through September. The program under this
 paragraph shall be administered within the State by the same State agency
 that administers the program during the months of May through September.
 `(B) Children participating in National Youth Sports Programs operated by
 higher education institutions, and such higher education institutions,
 shall be eligible to participate in the program under this paragraph
 without application.
 `(C) Higher education institutions shall be reimbursed for meals and meal
 supplements served under this paragraph--
 `(i) in the case of lunches and suppers, at the same rates as the payment
 rates established for free lunches under section 11; and
 `(ii) in the case of breakfasts or meal supplements, at the same rates as
 the severe need payment rates established for free breakfasts under section
 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
 `(D)(i) Meals for which a higher education institution is reimbursed under
 this paragraph shall fulfill the minimum nutritional requirements and meal
 patterns prescribed by the Secretary--
 `(I) for meals served under the school lunch program under this Act, in
 the case of reimbursement for lunches or suppers; and
 `(II) for meals served under the school breakfast program under section 4 of
 the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, in the case of reimbursement for breakfasts.
 `(ii) The Secretary may modify the minimum nutritional requirements and
 meal patterns prescribed by the Secretary for meals served under the school
 breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 for
 application to meal supplements for which a higher education institution
 is reimbursed under this paragraph.
 `(E) The Secretary shall issue regulations governing the implementation,
 operation, and monitoring of programs receiving assistance under this
 paragraph that, to the maximum extent practicable, are comparable to those
 established for higher education institutions participating in the National
 Youth Sports Program and receiving reimbursements under the program for
 the months of May through September.';
 (3) in the first sentence of subsection (l)(1), by inserting `(other than
 private nonprofit organizations eligible under subsection (a)(7))' after
 `Service institutions';
 (4) by redesignating subsection (p) as subsection (r);
 (5) by inserting after subsection (o) the following new subsections:
 `(p) During the fiscal years 1990 and 1991, the Secretary and the States
 shall carry out a program to disseminate to potentially eligible private
 nonprofit organizations information concerning the amendments made by the
 Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989 regarding the eligibility
 under subsection (a)(7) of private nonprofit organizations for the program
 established under this section.
 `(q)(1) In addition to the normal monitoring of organizations receiving
 assistance under this section, the Secretary shall establish a system
 under which the Secretary and the States shall monitor the compliance of
 private nonprofit organizations with the requirements of this section and
 with regulations issued to implement this section.
 `(2) Application forms or other printed materials provided by the Secretary
 or the States to persons who intend to apply to participate as private
 nonprofit organizations shall contain a warning in bold lettering explaining,
 at a minimum--
 `(A) the criminal provisions and penalties established by subsection (o); and
 `(B) the procedures for termination of participation in the program as
 established by regulations.
 `(3) The Secretary shall require each State to establish and implement an
 ongoing training and technical assistance program for private nonprofit
 organizations that provides information on program requirements, procedures,
 and accountability. The Secretary shall provide assistance to State agencies
 regarding the development of such training and technical assistance programs.
 `(4) In the fiscal year 1990 and each succeeding fiscal year, the Secretary
 may reserve for purposes of carrying out paragraphs (1) and (3) of this
 subsection not more than  1/2  of 1 percent of amounts appropriated for
 purposes of carrying out this section.
 `(5) For the purposes of this subsection, the term `private nonprofit
 organization' has the meaning given such term in subsection (a)(7)(B).'; and
 (6) in subsection (r) (as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this subsection),
 by striking `For' and all that follows through `1989,' and inserting `For
 the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1977, and each succeeding fiscal year
 ending before October 1, 1994,'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than February 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue regulations to implement the amendments made by paragraphs (1),
 (3), (4), and (5) of subsection (a). Notwithstanding the provisions of
 section 553 of title 5, United States Code, the Secretary of Agriculture
 may issue such regulations without providing notice or an opportunity for
 public comment.
 (2) NATIONAL YOUTH SPORTS PROGRAM- (A) Subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D)(i)
 of section 13(c)(2) of the National School Lunch Act (as added by subsection
 (a)(2)(B) of this section) shall be effective as of October 1, 1989.
 (B) Not later than February 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
 (i) issue final regulations to implement subparagraph (D)(ii) of section
 13(c)(2) of the National School Lunch Act (as added by subsection (a)(2)(B)
 of this section); and
 (ii) issue final regulations under subparagraph (E) of such section.
 (3) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION- The amendments made by subsection (a)(6)
 shall be effective as of October 1, 1989.
SEC. 103. EXTENSION OF COMMODITY DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Subsection (a) of section 14 of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1762a) is amended by striking `1989' and inserting
 `1994'.
 (b) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 14(g) of the National School Lunch Act (42
 U.S.C. 1762a(g)), as similarly added first by section 363 of the School
 Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law
 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-368), later by section 363 of the School Lunch and
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law 99-591
 (100 Stat. 3341-371), and later by section 4403 of the Child Nutrition
 Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense Authorization Act
 for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), and as then amended by section
 2 of Public Law 100-356, is amended to read as if only the amendment made
 by section 4403 of the Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987, was enacted.
 (2) COMPUTATION OF CASH COMPENSATION TO DISTRICTS UNDER PUBLIC LAW 100-356-
 (A) Paragraph (3) of section 14(g) of the National School Lunch Act (as
 amended by paragraph (1) of this subsection) (42 U.S.C. 1762a(g)) is amended--
 (i) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the following new sentences:
 `The Secretary, in computing losses sustained by any school district under
 the preceding sentence, shall base such computation on the actual amount of
 assistance received by such school district under this Act for the school
 year ending June 30, 1982, including--
 `(i) the value of assistance in the form of commodities provided in addition
 to those provided pursuant to section 6(e) of this Act; and
 `(ii) the value of assistance provided in the form of either cash or
 commodity letters of credit.
The Secretary may provide cash compensation under this subparagraph only
to eligible school districts that submit applications for such compensation
not later than May 1, 1988.'; and
 (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking `$50,000' and inserting `such sums
 as may be necessary'.
 (B) The amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall take effect as if such
 amendments had been effective on June 28, 1988.
 (c) COMPUTATION OF CASH COMPENSATION TO DISTRICTS- Section 14(g)(3)(A) of
 the National School Lunch Act (as amended by subsection (b) of this section)
 (42 U.S.C. 1762a(g)(3)(A)) is amended by striking the second sentence and
 all that follows and inserting the following: `The Secretary, in computing
 losses sustained by any school district under the preceding sentence, shall
 base such computation on the difference between the value of bonus commodity
 assistance received by such school district under this Act for the school
 year ending June 30, 1983, and the value of bonus commodities received by
 such school district under this Act for the school year ending June 30,
 1982. For the purposes of this subparagraph--
 `(i) the term `bonus commodities' means commodities provided in addition
 to commodities provided pursuant to section 6(e); and
 `(ii) the term `bonus commodity assistance' means assistance, in the form
 of bonus commodities, cash, or commodity letters of credit, provided in
 addition to assistance provided pursuant to section 6(e).
The Secretary may provide cash compensation under this subparagraph only
to eligible school districts that submit applications for such compensation
not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Child Nutrition
and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989. The Secretary shall, during the 45-day
period beginning on October 1, 1990, complete action on any claim submitted
under this subparagraph.'.
SEC. 104. REPEAL OF NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL.
 Section 15 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1763) is repealed.
SEC. 105. CHILD CARE FOOD PROGRAM.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO HEADING- The heading for section 17 of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) is amended to read as follows:
`child and adult care food program'.
 (b) OTHER AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 17- Section 17 of the National School Lunch
 Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (C) of subsection (f)(3)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by inserting before the period the following:
 `and expansion funds to finance the administrative expenses for such
 institutions to expand into low-income or rural areas';
 (B) in the second sentence, by inserting `and expansion funds' after
 `start-up funds';
 (C) in the third sentence, by inserting `and expansion funds' after
 `Start-up funds';
 (D) in the fourth sentence, by inserting `and expansion funds' after
 `start-up funds';
 (E) in the fifth sentence, by inserting `and expansion funds' after `start-up
 funds'; and
 (F) by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence:
 `Institutions that have received start-up funds may also apply at a later
 date for expansion funds.';
 (2) in subsection (l)--
 (A) by inserting `(1)' after `(l)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) The Secretary shall conduct demonstration projects to test innovative
 approaches to remove or reduce barriers to participation in the program
 established under this section regarding family or group day care homes that
 operate in low-income areas or that primarily serve low-income children. As
 part of such demonstration projects, the Secretary may provide grants to,
 or otherwise modify administrative reimbursement rates for, family or group
 day care home sponsoring organizations.
 `(3) The Secretary and the States shall provide training and technical
 assistance to assist family and group day care home sponsoring organizations
 in reaching low-income children.';
 (3) in subsection (p)--
 (A) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the following: `Lunches served
 by each such institution for which reimbursement is claimed under this
 section shall provide, on the average, approximately  1/3  of the daily
 recommended dietary allowance established by the Food and Nutrition Board
 of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences. Such
 institutions shall make reasonable efforts to serve meals that meet the
 special dietary requirements of participants, including efforts to serve
 foods in forms palatable to participants.'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) The Governor of any State may designate to administer the program under
 this subsection a State agency other than the agency that administers the
 child care food program under this section.'; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(q)(1) From amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for purposes
 of carrying out this section, the Secretary shall carry out 2 statewide
 demonstration projects under which private for-profit organizations
 providing nonresidential day care services shall qualify as institutions
 for the purposes of this section. An organization may participate in a
 demonstration project described in the preceding sentence if--
 `(A) at least 25 percent of the children served by such organization meet
 the income eligibility criteria established under section 9(b) for free or
 reduced price meals; and
 `(B) as a result of the participation of the organization in the project--
 `(i) the nutritional content or quality of meals and snacks served to
 children under the care of such organization will be improved; or
 `(ii) fees charged by such organization for the care of the children
 described in subparagraph (A) will be lowered.
 `(2) Under each such project, the Secretary shall examine--
 `(A) the budgetary impact of the change in eligibility being tested;
 `(B) the extent to which, as a result of such change, additional low-income
 children can be reached; and
 `(C) which outreach methods are most effective.
 `(3) The Secretary shall choose to conduct demonstration projects under
 this subsection--
 `(A) 1 State that--
 `(i) has a history of participation of for-profit organizations in the
 child care food program;
 `(ii) allocates a significant proportion of the amounts it receives for
 child care under title XX of the Social Security Act in a manner that
 allows low-income parents to choose the type of child care their children
 will receive;
 `(iii) has other funding mechanisms that support parental choice for
 child care;
 `(iv) has a large, State-regulated for-profit child care industry that
 serves low-income children; and
 `(v) has large sponsors of family or group day care homes that have a
 history of recruiting and sponsoring for-profit child care centers in the
 child care food program; and
 `(B) 1 State in which--
 `(i) the majority of children for whom child care arrangements are made
 are being cared for in center-based child care facilities;
 `(ii) for-profit child care centers and preschools are located throughout
 the State and serve both rural and urban populations;
 `(iii) at least  1/3  of the licensed child care centers and preschools
 operate as for-profit facilities;
 `(iv) all licensed facilities are subject to identical nutritional
 requirements for food service that are similar to those required under the
 child care food program; and
 `(v) less than 1 percent of child care centers participating in the child care
 food program receive assistance under title XX of the Social Security Act.
 `(4) Such project shall--
 `(A) commence not earlier than May 1, 1990, and not later than June 30,
 1990; and
 `(B) terminate on September 30, 1992.'.
 (c) FAMILY OR GROUP DAY CARE HOME DEMONSTRATION PROJECT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 503(e) of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (42
 U.S.C. 1766 note) is amended by striking `not later than 12 months after
 the date on which the project was fully initiated' and inserting `September
 30, 1990'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be effective
 as of October 1, 1989. The Secretary of Agriculture shall reimburse day
 care institutions and family or group day care sponsoring organizations
 participating in the demonstration project authorized under section 503(a)
 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1766 note) as if this Act
 was enacted before such date.
 (d) IMPLEMENTATION-
 (1) EXPANSION; DEMONSTRATION PROJECT- The Secretary of Agriculture shall
 implement the amendments made by subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) not later
 than July 1, 1990.
 (2) DIETARY REQUIREMENTS FOR ADULT DAY CARE FOOD PROGRAM- Not later than
 July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue final regulations
 to implement the amendments made by subsection (b)(3).
SEC. 106. MEAL SUPPLEMENTS FOR CHILDREN IN AFTERSCHOOL CARE.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et
 seq.) is amended by inserting after section 17 the following new section:
`SEC. 17A. MEAL SUPPLEMENTS FOR CHILDREN IN AFTERSCHOOL CARE.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY-
 `(1) GRANTS TO STATES- The Secretary shall carry out a program to assist
 States through grants-in-aid and other means to provide meal supplements
 to children in afterschool care in eligible elementary and secondary schools.
 `(2) ELIGIBLE SCHOOLS- For the purposes of this section, the term `eligible
 elementary and secondary schools' means schools that--
 `(A) operate school lunch programs under this Act;
 `(B) sponsor afterschool care programs; and
 `(C) are participating in the child care food program under section 17 on
 May 15, 1989.
 `(b) ELIGIBLE CHILDREN- Reimbursement may be provided under this section
 only for supplements served to children--
 `(1) who are not more than 12 years of age; or
 `(2) in the case of children of migrant workers or children with handicaps,
 who are not more than 15 years of age.
 `(c) REIMBURSEMENT- For the purposes of this section, the national average
 payment rate for supplements shall be equal to those established under
 section 17(c)(3) (as adjusted pursuant to section 11(a)(3)).
 `(d) CONTENTS OF SUPPLEMENTS- The requirements that apply to the content
 of meal supplements served under child care food programs operated with
 assistance under this Act shall apply to the content of meal supplements
 served under programs operated with assistance under this section.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final regulations to implement section 17A of the National
 School Lunch Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section).
SEC. 107. PILOT PROJECTS.
 Section 18 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) of subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking `for the duration beginning July 1, 1987, and ending December
 31, 1990' and inserting `beginning July 1, 1987, and ending September 30,
 1992'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `The Secretary, directly
 or through contract, shall administer the project under this subsection.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) The Secretary shall conduct demonstration projects designed to
 provide food service throughout the year to homeless children under the
 age of 6 in emergency shelters.
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall enter into agreements with private nonprofit
 organizations to participate in the projects under this subsection.
 `(B) The Secretary shall establish eligibility requirements for private
 nonprofit organizations that desire to participate in the projects under
 this subsection. Such requirements shall include the following:
 `(i) Each such organization shall operate not more than 5 food service sites
 under the project and shall serve not more than 300 homeless children at
 each such site.
 `(ii) Each site operated by each such organization shall meet applicable
 State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards.
 `(3)(A) Projects under this subsection shall use the same meal patterns
 and shall receive reimbursement payments for meals and supplements at the
 same rates provided to child care centers participating in the child care
 food program under section 17 for free meals and supplements.
 `(B) Homeless children under the age of 6 in emergency shelters shall be
 considered eligible for free meals without application.
 `(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `emergency shelter' has
 the meaning given such term in section 321(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney
 Homeless Assistance Act.
 `(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall expend
 to carry out this subsection from amounts appropriated for purposes of
 carrying out this Act not less than $50,000 in the fiscal year 1990 and not
 less than $350,000 in each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994,
 in addition to any amounts made available under section 7(a)(5)(B)(i)(I)
 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. Any amounts expended under the preceding
 sentence shall be used solely to provide grants on an annual basis to private
 nonprofit organizations for the conduct of projects under this subsection.
 `(B) The Secretary may expend less than the amount required under subparagraph
 (A) if there is an insufficient number of suitable applicants.
 `(6) At least 1 project under this subsection shall commence operations
 not later than September 30, 1990, and all such projects shall cease to
 operate not later than September 30, 1994.'.
SEC. 108. REDUCTION OF PAPERWORK.
 Section 19 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769a) is amended
 to read as follows:
`SEC. 19. REDUCTION OF PAPERWORK.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In carrying out functions under this Act and the Child
 Nutrition Act of 1966, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent possible,
 reduce the paperwork required of State and local educational agencies,
 schools, and other agencies participating in nutrition programs assisted
 under such Acts in connection with such participation.
 `(b) CONSULTATION; PUBLIC COMMENT- In carrying out the requirements of
 subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
 `(1) consult with State and local administrators of programs assisted under
 this Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966;
 `(2) convene at least 1 meeting of the administrators described in paragraph
 (1) not later than the expiration of the 10-month period beginning on the
 date of the enactment of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act
 of 1989; and
 `(3) obtain suggestions from members of the public with respect to reduction
 of paperwork.
 `(c) REPORT- Before the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date
 of the enactment of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989,
 the Secretary shall report to the Congress concerning the extent to which
 a reduction has occurred in the amount of paperwork described in subsection
 (a). Such report shall be developed in consultation with the administrators
 described in subsection (b)(1).'.
SEC. 109. TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT
INSTITUTE.
 The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 21. TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT
INSTITUTE.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary--
 `(1) from amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (e)(1), shall conduct
 training activities and provide technical assistance to improve the skills
 of individuals employed in--
 `(A) food service programs carried out with assistance under this Act;
 `(B) school breakfast programs carried out with assistance under section
 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966; and
 `(C) as appropriate, other federally assisted feeding programs; and
 `(2) from amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (e)(2), is authorized
 to establish and maintain a food service management institute.
 `(b) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS- The activities conducted and assistance provided
 as required by subsection (a)(1) shall at least include activities and
 assistance with respect to--
 `(1) menu planning;
 `(2) implementation of regulations and appropriate guidelines; and
 `(3) compliance with program requirements and accountability for program
 operations.
 `(c) DUTIES OF FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any food service management institute established as
 authorized by subsection (a)(2) shall carry out activities to improve the
 general operation and quality of--
 `(A) food service programs assisted under this Act;
 `(B) school breakfast programs assisted under section 4 of the Child
 Nutrition Act of 1966; and
 `(C) as appropriate, other federally assisted feeding programs.
 `(2) REQUIRED ACTIVITIES- Activities carried out under paragraph (1)
 shall include--
 `(A) conducting research necessary to assist schools and other organizations
 that participate in such programs in providing high quality, nutritious,
 cost-effective meal service to the children served;
 `(B) providing training and technical assistance with respect to--
 `(i) efficient use of physical resources;
 `(ii) financial management;
 `(iii) efficient use of computers;
 `(iv) procurement;
 `(v) sanitation;
 `(vi) safety;
 `(vii) food handling;
 `(viii) meal planning and related nutrition activities; and
 `(ix) other appropriate activities;
 `(C) establishing a national network of trained professionals to present
 training programs and workshops for food service personnel;
 `(D) developing training materials for use in the programs and workshops
 described in subparagraph (C); and
 `(E) acting as a clearinghouse for research, studies, and findings concerning
 all aspects of the operation of food service programs, including activities
 carried out with assistance provided under section 19 of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966.
 `(d) COORDINATION- The Secretary shall coordinate activities carried out and
 assistance provided as required by subsection (b) with activities carried
 out by any food service management institute established as authorized by
 subsection (a)(2).
 `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be
 appropriated--
 `(1) $3,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990, $2,000,000 for the fiscal year
 1991, and $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 for
 purposes of carrying out subsection (a)(1); and
 `(2) $1,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990 and $4,000,000 for each of the fiscal
 years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994 for purposes of carrying out subsection
 (a)(2).'.
SEC. 110. COMPLIANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The National School Lunch Act (as amended by section
 109 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new section:
`SEC. 22. COMPLIANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
 `(a) UNIFIED ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM- There shall be a unified system
 prescribed and administered by the Secretary for ensuring that local food
 service authorities that participate in the school lunch program under this
 Act comply with the provisions of this Act. Such system shall be established
 through the publication of regulations and the provision of an opportunity
 for public comment, consistent with the provisions of section 553 of title 5,
 United States Code.
 `(b) FUNCTIONS OF SYSTEM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Under the system described in subsection (a), each State
 educational agency shall--
 `(A) require that local food service authorities comply with the provisions
 of this Act; and
 `(B) ensure such compliance through reasonable audits and supervisory
 assistance reviews.
 `(2) MINIMIZATION OF ADDITIONAL DUTIES- Each State educational agency
 shall coordinate the compliance and accountability activities described
 in paragraph (1) in a manner that minimizes the imposition of additional
 duties on local food service authorities.
 `(c) ROLE OF SECRETARY- In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall--
 `(1) assist the State educational agency in the monitoring of programs
 conducted by local food service authorities; and
 `(2) through management evaluations, review the compliance of the State
 educational agency and the local school food service authorities with
 regulations issued under this Act.
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 for purposes of carrying out the compliance and accountability activities
 referred to in subsection (c) $3,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1990,
 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final regulations to implement section 22 of the National School
 Lunch Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section).
SEC. 111. INFORMATION ON INCOME ELIGIBILITY.
 The National School Lunch Act (as amended by sections 109 and 110 of this
 Act) (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 23. INFORMATION ON INCOME ELIGIBILITY.
 `(a) INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED- In the case of each program established
 under this Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, the Secretary shall
 provide to each appropriate State agency--
 `(1) information concerning what types of income are counted in determining
 the eligibility of children to receive free or reduced price meals under the
 program in which such State, State agency, local agency, or other entity is
 participating, particularly with respect to how net self-employment income
 is determined for family day care providers participating in the child care
 food program (including the treatment of reimbursements provided under this
 section); and
 `(2) information concerning the consideration of applications for free or
 reduced price meals from households in which the head of the household is
 less than 21 years old.
 `(b) TIME FOR PROVISION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary shall provide the
 information required by subsection (a) before the expiration of the 60-day
 period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Child Nutrition and
 WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989 and shall as necessary provide revisions
 of such information.
 `(c) FORM SIMPLIFICATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary shall--
 `(1) review the model application forms for programs under this Act and
 programs under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966; and
 `(2) simplify the format and instructions for such forms so that the forms
 are easily understandable by the individuals who must complete them.'.
SEC. 112. NUTRITION GUIDANCE FOR CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS.
 The National School Lunch Act (as amended by sections 109, 110, and 111
 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new section:
`SEC. 24. NUTRITION GUIDANCE FOR CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS.
 `(a) NUTRITION GUIDANCE PUBLICATION-
 `(1) DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services shall jointly develop and approve a publication to be
 entitled `Nutrition Guidance for Child Nutrition Programs' (hereafter in
 this section referred to as the `publication'). The Secretary shall develop
 the publication as required by the preceding sentence before the expiration
 of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Child
 Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989.
 `(2) TIME FOR DISTRIBUTION- Before the expiration of the 6-month period
 beginning on the date that the development of the publication is completed,
 the Secretary shall distribute the publication to school food service
 authorities and institutions and organizations participating in covered
 programs.
 `(b) REVISION OF MENU PLANNING GUIDES- The Secretary shall, as necessary,
 revise the menu planning guides for each covered program to include
 recommendations for the implementation of nutrition guidance described in
 the publication.
 `(c) APPLICATION OF NUTRITION GUIDANCE TO MEAL PROGRAMS- In carrying out
 any covered program, school food authorities and other organizations and
 institutions participating in such program shall apply the nutrition guidance
 described in the publication when preparing meals and meal supplements
 served under such program.
 `(d) IMPLEMENTATION- In carrying out covered programs, the Secretary shall
 ensure that meals and meal supplements served under such programs are
 consistent with the nutrition guidance described in the publication.
 `(e) REVISION OF PUBLICATION- The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services may jointly update and approve the publication as warranted
 by scientific evidence.
 `(f) COVERED PROGRAMS- For the purposes of this section, the term `covered
 program' includes--
 `(1) the school lunch program under this Act;
 `(2) the summer food service program for children under section 13;
 `(3) the child care food program under section 17; and
 `(4) the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966.'.
PART B--PROGRAMS UNDER THE CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966
SEC. 121. EXPANSION OF SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM.
 Section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1733) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by inserting before the period
 the following: `and to carry out the provisions of subsection (g)';
 (2) in subsection (f)--
 (A) by inserting before the subsection the following new heading:
`expansion of program';
 (B) by inserting `(1)' after `(f)';
 (C) by striking the last sentence; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) Each State educational agency shall--
 `(i) provide information to school boards and public officials concerning
 the benefits and availability of the school breakfast program; and
 `(ii) select each year, for additional informational efforts concerning
 the program, schools in the State--
 `(I) in which a substantial portion of school enrollment consists of children
 from low-income families; and
 `(II) that do not participate in the school breakfast program.
 `(B) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary shall report to the
 Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate concerning
 the efforts of the Secretary and the States to increase the participation
 of schools in the program.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
`STARTUP COSTS
 `(g)(1) The Secretary shall make payments, totalling not less than $3,000,000
 in the fiscal year 1990 and $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991,
 1992, 1993, and 1994, on a competitive basis to State educational agencies
 in a substantial number of States for distribution to eligible schools to
 assist such schools with nonrecurring expenses incurred in initiating a
 school breakfast program under this section. Payments received under this
 subsection shall be in addition to payments to which State agencies are
 entitled under subsection (b).
 `(2)(A) In making payments under this subsection in any fiscal year, the
 Secretary shall provide a preference to State educational agencies that--
 `(i) submit to the Secretary a plan to expand school breakfast programs
 conducted in the State, including a description of--
 `(I) the manner in which the agency will provide technical assistance and
 funding to schools in the State to expand such programs;
 `(II) a State law that requires the expansion of such programs during such
 year; or
 `(III) significant public or private resources that have been assembled to
 carry out the expansion of such programs during such year; or
 `(ii) either--
 `(I) do not have a breakfast program available to a large number of low-income
 children in the State; or
 `(II) serve a low percentage of free and reduced price breakfasts under the
 school breakfast program when the number of such breakfasts is measured as
 a percentage of the number of free and reduced price lunches served in such
 State under the school lunch program carried out under the National School
 Lunch Act.
 `(B) The Secretary shall act in a timely manner to recover and reallocate
 to other States any amounts provided to a State educational agency under
 this subsection that are not used by such agency within a reasonable period.
 `(C) The Secretary shall allow States to apply on an annual basis for
 assistance under this subsection.
 `(3) Each State agency, in allocating funds within the State, shall give
 preference for assistance under this subsection to eligible schools that
 demonstrate the greatest need for a breakfast program.
 `(4) Expenditures of funds from State and local sources for the maintenance
 of the breakfast program shall not be diminished as a result of payments
 received under this subsection.
 `(5) As used in this subsection, the term `eligible school' means a school--
 `(A) attended by children a significant percentage of whom are members of
 low-income families; and
 `(B) that agrees to operate the breakfast program established with such
 assistance for a period of not less than 3 years.
 `(6) Not later than December 31, 1993, the Secretary shall submit a report
 to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate
 concerning the efforts of the Secretary and the States to increase the
 participation of schools in the program.'.
SEC. 122. STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 7 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1776)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting after the first sentence the following
 new sentence: `If an agency in the State other than the State educational
 agency administers such program, the State shall ensure that an amount equal
 to no less than the funds due the State under this paragraph is provided to
 such agency for costs incurred by such agency in administering the program,
 except as provided in paragraph (5).';
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs (6) and (7),
 respectively;
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
 `(5)(A) Not more than 25 percent of the amounts made available to each State
 under this section for the fiscal year 1991 and 20 percent of the amounts
 made available to each State under this section for the fiscal year 1992
 and for each succeeding fiscal year may remain available for obligation or
 expenditure in the fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year for which such
 amounts were appropriated.
 `(B)(i) In the fiscal year 1991 and each succeeding fiscal year, any amounts
 appropriated that are not obligated or expended during such fiscal year
 and are not carried over for the succeeding fiscal year under subparagraph
 (A) shall be returned to the Secretary. From any amounts returned to the
 Secretary under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall--
 `(I) first allocate, for the purpose of providing grants on an annual basis
 to private nonprofit organizations participating in projects under section
 18(f) of the National School Lunch Act, not less than $3,000,000 in the
 fiscal year 1992 and not less than $4,000,000 in each of the fiscal years
 1993 and 1994; and
 `(II) then allocate, for purposes of administrative costs, any remaining
 amounts among States that demonstrate a need for such amounts.
 `(ii) In any fiscal year in which amounts returned to the Secretary under
 the first sentence of clause (i) are insufficient to provide the complete
 allocation described in clause (i)(I), all of such amounts shall be allocated
 for the purpose described in clause (i)(I).'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(8) In the fiscal year 1991 and each succeeding fiscal year, in accordance
 with regulations issued by the Secretary, each State shall ensure that the
 State agency administering the distribution of commodities under programs
 authorized under this Act and under the National School Lunch Act is provided,
 from funds made available to the State under this subsection, an appropriate
 amount of funds for administrative costs incurred in distributing such
 commodities. In developing such regulations, the Secretary may consider
 the value of commodities provided to the State under this Act and under
 the National School Lunch Act.';
 (2) in subsection (g), by inserting before the period at the end the
 following: `, and that agree to participate fully in any studies authorized
 by the Secretary'; and
 (3) in subsection (h), by striking `For' and all that follows through
 `1989,' and inserting `For the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1977,
 and each succeeding fiscal year ending before October 1, 1994,'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- The amendment made by subsection (a)(1)(A) shall be
 effective as of October 1, 1989.
SEC. 123. ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES AND REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO SPECIAL
SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(17) `Competitive bidding' means a procurement process under which the State
 agency selects the single source offering the lowest price, as determined
 by the submission of sealed bids, for the product for which bids are sought.';
 (2) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall establish income eligibility standards to
 be used in conjunction with the nutritional risk criteria in determining
 eligibility of individuals for participation in the program. Any individual
 at nutritional risk shall be eligible for the program under this section
 only if such individual--
 `(i) is a member of a family with an income that is less than the maximum
 income limit prescribed under section 9(b) of the National School Lunch
 Act for free and reduced price meals;
 `(ii)(I) receives food stamps under the Food Stamp Act of 1977; or
 `(II) is a member of a family that receives assistance under the program
 for aid to families with dependent children established under part A of
 title IV of the Social Security Act; or
 `(iii)(I) receives medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security
 Act; or
 `(II) is a member of a family in which a pregnant woman or an infant receives
 such assistance.
 `(B) For the purpose of determining income eligibility under this section,
 any State agency may choose to exclude from income any basic allowance
 for quarters received by military service personnel residing off military
 installations.';
 (3) in subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking the last 3 sentences of paragraph (1);
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) The Secretary shall prescribe standards to ensure that adequate
 nutrition education services and breastfeeding promotion and support are
 provided. The State agency shall provide training to persons providing
 nutrition education under this section. Nutrition education and breastfeeding
 promotion and support shall be evaluated annually by each State agency,
 and such evaluation shall include the views of participants concerning the
 effectiveness of the nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and
 support they have received.'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(3) The State agency shall--
 `(A) ensure that written information concerning food stamps, the program
 for aid to families with dependent children under part A of title IV of
 the Social Security Act, and the child support enforcement program under
 part D of title IV of the Social Security Act is provided on at least 1
 occasion to each adult participant in and each applicant for the program;
 `(B) provide each local agency with materials showing the maximum income
 limits, according to family size, applicable to pregnant women, infants,
 and children up to age 5 under the medical assistance program established
 under title XIX of the Social Security Act (in this section referred to as
 the `medicaid program'); and
 `(C) provide to individuals applying for the program under this section,
 or reapplying at the end of their certification period, written information
 about the medicaid program and referral to such program or to agencies
 authorized to determine presumptive eligibility for such program, if such
 individuals are not participating in such program and appear to have family
 income below the applicable maximum income limits for such program.
 `(4) The State agency shall ensure that each local agency shall maintain
 and make available for distribution a list of local resources for substance
 abuse counseling and treatment.';
 (4) in subsection (f)--
 (A) in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1)--
 (i) in clause (iii)--
 (I) by inserting `local programs for breastfeeding promotion,' after
 `immunization programs,'; and
 (II) by inserting `and treatment' after `alcohol and drug abuse counseling';
 (ii) by amending clause (vii) to read as follows:
 `(vii) a plan to provide program benefits under this section to eligible
 individuals most in need of the benefits and to provide eligible individuals
 not participating in the program with information on the program, the
 eligibility criteria for the program, and how to apply for the program,
 with emphasis on reaching and enrolling eligible women in the early months
 of pregnancy, including provisions to reach and enroll eligible migrants;';
 (iii) by redesignating clauses (viii) and (ix) as clauses (xii) and (xiii),
 respectively; and
 (iv) by inserting after clause (vii) the following new clauses:
 `(viii) a plan to provide program benefits under this section to unserved
 infants and children under the care of foster parents, protective services,
 or child welfare authorities, including infants exposed to drugs perinatally;
 `(ix) if the State agency chooses to provide program benefits under this
 section to some or all eligible individuals who are incarcerated in prisons
 or juvenile detention facilities that do not receive Federal assistance under
 any program specifically established to assist pregnant women regarding their
 nutrition and health needs, a plan for the provision of such benefits to,
 and to meet the special nutrition education needs of, such individuals,
 which may include--
 `(I) providing supplemental foods to such individuals that are different
 from those provided to other participants in the program under this section;
 `(II) providing such foods to such individuals in a different manner than
 to other participants in the program under this section in order to meet
 the special needs of such individuals; and
 `(III) the development of nutrition education materials appropriate for
 the special needs of such individuals;
 `(x) a plan to improve access to the program for participants and prospective
 applicants who are employed, or who reside in rural areas, by addressing
 their special needs through the adoption or revision of procedures and
 practices to minimize the time participants and applicants must spend away
 from work and the distances that participants and applicants must travel,
 including appointment scheduling, adjustment of clinic hours, clinic
 locations, or mailing of multiple vouchers;
 `(xi) a plan to provide nutrition education and promote breastfeeding;';
 (B) by adding at the end of paragraph (8) the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) Each local agency operating the program within a hospital and each
 local agency operating the program that has a cooperative arrangement with
 a hospital shall--
 `(i) advise potentially eligible individuals that receive inpatient or
 outpatient prenatal, maternity, or postpartum services, or accompany a child
 under the age of 5 who receives well-child services, of the availability
 of program benefits; and
 `(ii) to the extent feasible, provide an opportunity for individuals who
 may be eligible to be certified within the hospital for participation in
 such program.';
 (C) in paragraph (9)--
 (i) by inserting `(A)' after `(9)'; and
 (ii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) Any State agency that must suspend or terminate benefits to
 any participant during the participant's certification period due to
 a shortage of funds for the program shall first issue a notice to such
 participant. Such notice shall include, in addition to other information
 required by the Secretary, the categories of participants whose benefits
 are being suspended or terminated due to such shortage.';
 (D) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (14), by inserting `, breastfeeding
 promotion,' after `nutrition education';
 (E) in paragraph (17), by inserting before the period the following:
 `and to accommodate the special needs and problems of individuals who are
 incarcerated in prisons or juvenile detention facilities'; and
 (F) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(18)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a State agency may implement
 income eligibility guidelines under this section at the time the State
 implements income eligibility guidelines under the medicaid program.
 `(B) Income eligibility guidelines under this section shall be implemented
 not later than July 1 of each year.
 `(19) Each local agency participating in the program under this section
 shall provide information about other potential sources of food assistance
 in the local area to individuals who apply in person to participate in the
 program under this section, but who cannot be served because the program
 is operating at capacity in the local area.
 `(20) The State agency shall adopt policies that--
 `(A) require each local agency to attempt to contact each pregnant woman
 who misses an appointment to apply for participation in the program under
 this section, in order to reschedule the appointment, unless the phone
 number and the address of the woman are unavailable to such local agency; and
 `(B) in the case of local agencies that do not routinely schedule appointments
 for individuals seeking to apply or be recertified for participation in
 the program under this section, require each such local agency to schedule
 appointments for each employed individual seeking to apply or be recertified
 for participation in such program so as to minimize the time each such
 individual is absent from the workplace due to such application or request
 for recertification.';
 (5) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
 $2,158,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990, and such sums as may be necessary
 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994. As authorized by
 section 3 of the National School Lunch Act, appropriations to carry out the
 provisions of this section may be made not more than 1 year in advance of
 the beginning of the fiscal year in which the funds will become available
 for disbursement to the States, and shall remain available for the purposes
 for which appropriated until expended.';
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (4) and (5),
 respectively;
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraphs:
 `(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, unless enacted in
 express limitation of this subparagraph, the Secretary--
 `(i) in the case of legislation providing funds through the end of a fiscal
 year, shall issue--
 `(I) an initial allocation of funds provided by the enactment of such
 legislation not later than the expiration of the 15-day period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of such legislation; and
 `(II) subsequent allocations of funds provided by the enactment of such
 legislation not later than the beginning of each of the second, third,
 and fourth quarters of the fiscal year; and
 `(ii) in the case of legislation providing funds for a period that ends
 prior to the end of a fiscal year, shall issue an initial allocation of funds
 provided by the enactment of such legislation not later than the expiration of
 the 10-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of such legislation.
 `(B) In any fiscal year--
 `(i) unused amounts from a prior fiscal year that are identified by the end
 of the first quarter of the fiscal year shall be recovered and reallocated
 not later than the beginning of the second quarter of the fiscal year; and
 `(ii) unused amounts from a prior fiscal year that are identified after
 the end of the first quarter of the fiscal year shall be recovered and
 reallocated on a timely basis.
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, unless enacted in express
 limitation of this paragraph--
 `(A) the allocation of funds required by paragraph (2)(A)(i)(I) shall include
 not less than  1/3  of the amounts appropriated by the legislation described
 in such paragraph;
 `(B) the allocations of funds required by paragraph (2)(A)(i)(II) to be made
 not later than the beginning of the second and third quarters of the fiscal
 year shall each include not less than  1/4  of the amounts appropriated by
 the legislation described in such paragraph; and
 `(C) in the case of the enactment of legislation providing appropriations
 for a period of not more than 4 months, the allocation of funds required
 by paragraph (2)(A)(ii) shall include all amounts appropriated by such
 legislation except amounts reserved by the Secretary for purposes of carrying
 out paragraph (5).';
 (D) in paragraph (5) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph),
 by striking `$3,000,000' and inserting `$5,000,000'; and
 (E) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) Upon the completion of the 1990 decennial census, the Secretary,
 in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, shall make available
 an estimate, by State and county (or equivalent political subdivision)
 of the number of women, infants, and children who are members of families
 that have incomes below the maximum income limit for participation in the
 program under this section.';
 (6) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:
 `(h)(1)(A) Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available, from
 amounts appropriated for such fiscal year under subsection (g)(1) and
 amounts remaining from amounts appropriated under such subsection for the
 preceding fiscal year, an amount sufficient to guarantee a national average
 per participant grant to be allocated among State agencies for costs incurred
 by State and local agencies for nutrition services and administration for
 such year.
 `(B)(i) The amount of the national average per participant grant for nutrition
 services and administration for any fiscal year shall be an amount equal
 to the amount of the national average per participant grant for nutrition
 services and administration issued for the fiscal year 1987, as adjusted.
 `(ii) Such adjustment, for any fiscal year, shall be made by revising
 the national average per participant grant for nutrition services and
 administration for the fiscal year 1987 to reflect the percentage change
 between--
 `(I) the value of the index for State and local government purchases,
 using the implicit price deflator, as published by the Bureau of Economic
 Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June
 30, 1986; and
 `(II) the best estimate that is available as of the start of the fiscal
 year of the value of such index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of
 the previous fiscal year.
 `(C) In any fiscal year, amounts remaining from amounts appropriated for such
 fiscal year under subsection (g)(1) and from amounts appropriated under such
 section for the preceding fiscal year, after carrying out subparagraph (A),
 shall be made available for food benefits under this section, except to the
 extent that such amounts are needed to carry out the purposes of subsections
 (g)(4) and (g)(5).
 `(2)(A) For each of the fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994, the
 Secretary shall allocate to each State agency from the amount described in
 paragraph (1)(A) an amount for costs of nutrition services and administration
 on the basis of a formula prescribed by the Secretary. Such formula shall--
 `(i) be designed to take into account--
 `(I) the varying needs of each State;
 `(II) the number of individuals participating in each State; and
 `(III) other factors which serve to promote the proper, efficient, and
 effective administration of the program under this section;
 `(ii) provide for each State agency--
 `(I) an estimate of the number of participants for the fiscal year involved;
 and
 `(II) a per participant grant for nutrition services and administration
 for such year; and
 `(iii) provide for a minimum grant amount for State agencies.
 `(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii) and subparagraph (C), in any fiscal
 year, the total amount allocated to a State agency for costs of nutrition
 services and administration under the formula prescribed by the Secretary
 under subparagraph (A) shall constitute the State agency's operational
 level for such costs for such year even if the number of participants in the
 program at such agency is lower than the estimate provided under subparagraph
 (A)(ii)(I).
 `(ii) If a State agency's per participant expenditure for nutrition services
 and administration is more than 15 percent higher than its per participant
 grant for nutrition services and administration without good cause, the
 Secretary may reduce such State agency's operational level for costs of
 nutrition services and administration.
 `(C) In any fiscal year, the Secretary may reallocate amounts provided to
 State agencies under subparagraph (A) for such fiscal year. When reallocating
 amounts under the preceding sentence, the Secretary may provide additional
 amounts to, or recover amounts from, any State agency.
 `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), in each fiscal year,
 each State agency shall expend--
 `(i) for nutrition education activities and breastfeeding promotion and
 support activities, an aggregate amount that is not less than the sum of--
 `(I)  1/6  of the amounts expended by the State for costs of nutrition
 services and administration; and
 `(II) an amount equal to a proportionate share of $8,000,000, with each
 State's share determined on the basis of the number of pregnant women and
 breastfeeding women in the program in the State as a percentage of the number
 of pregnant women and breastfeeding women in the program in all States; and
 `(ii) for breastfeeding promotion and support activities an amount that is
 not less than the amount determined for such State under clause (i)(II).
 `(B) The Secretary may authorize a State agency to expend an amount less than
 the amount described in subparagraph (A)(ii) for purposes of breastfeeding
 promotion and support activities if--
 `(i) the State agency so requests; and
 `(ii) the request is accompanied by documentation that other funds will
 be used to conduct nutrition education activities at a level commensurate
 with the level at which such activities would be conducted if the amount
 described in subparagraph (A)(ii) were expended for such activities.
 `(C) The Secretary may authorize a State agency to expend for purposes of
 nutrition education an amount that is less than the difference between the
 aggregate amount described in subparagraph (A) and the amount expended by
 the State for breastfeeding promotion and support programs if--
 `(i) the State agency so requests; and
 `(ii) the request is accompanied by documentation that other funds will be
 used to conduct such activities.
 `(D) The Secretary shall limit to a minimal level any documentation required
 under this paragraph.
 `(4) The Secretary shall--
 `(A) in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
 develop a definition of breastfeeding for the purposes of the program under
 this section;
 `(B) authorize the purchase of breastfeeding aids by State and local agencies
 as an allowable expense under nutrition services and administration;
 `(C) require each State agency to designate an agency staff member to
 coordinate breastfeeding promotion efforts identified in the State plan of
 operation and administration; and
 `(D) require the State agency to provide training on the promotion and
 management of breastfeeding to staff members of local agencies who are
 responsible for counseling participants in the program under this section
 concerning breastfeeding.
 `(5)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), in any fiscal year that a State
 agency achieves, through use of acceptable measures, participation that
 exceeds the participation level estimated for such State agency under
 paragraph (2)(A)(ii)(I), such State agency may convert amounts allocated
 for food benefits for such fiscal year for costs of nutrition services and
 administration to the extent that such conversion is necessary--
 `(i) to cover allowable expenditures in such fiscal year; and
 `(ii) to ensure that the State agency maintains the level established for
 the per participant grant for nutrition services and administration for
 such fiscal year.
 `(B) If a State agency increases its participation level through measures
 that are not in the nutritional interests of participants or not otherwise
 allowable (such as reducing the quantities of foods provided for reasons not
 related to nutritional need), the Secretary may refuse to allow the State
 agency to convert amounts allocated for food benefits to defray costs of
 nutrition services and administration.
 `(C) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term `acceptable measures'
 includes use of cost containment measures, curtailment of vendor abuse,
 and breastfeeding promotion activities.
 `(6) In each fiscal year, each State agency shall provide, from the amounts
 allocated to such agency for such year for costs of nutrition services and
 administration, an amount to each local agency for its costs of nutrition
 services and administration. The amount to be provided to each local agency
 under the preceding sentence shall be determined under allocation standards
 developed by the State agency in cooperation with the several local agencies,
 taking into account factors deemed appropriate to further proper, efficient,
 and effective administration of the program, such as--
 `(A) local agency staffing needs;
 `(B) density of population;
 `(C) number of individuals served; and
 `(D) availability of administrative support from other sources.
 `(7) The State agency may provide in advance to any local agency any
 amounts for nutrition services and administration deemed necessary for
 successful commencement or significant expansion of program operations
 during a reasonable period following approval of--
 `(A) a new local agency;
 `(B) a new cost containment measure; or
 `(C) a significant change in an existing cost containment measure.
 `(8)(A) No State may receive its allocation under this subsection unless on
 or before August 30, 1989 (or a subsequent date established by the Secretary
 for any State) such State has--
 `(i) examined the feasibility of implementing cost containment measures
 with respect to procurement of infant formula, and, where practicable,
 other foods necessary to carry out the program under this section; and
 `(ii) initiated action to implement such measures unless the State
 demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that such measures
 would not lower costs or would interfere with the delivery of formula or
 foods to participants in the program.
 `(B)(i) Except as provided in subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E)(iii), in
 carrying out subparagraph (A), any State that provides for the purchase
 of foods under the program at retail grocery stores shall, with respect to
 the procurement of infant formula, use--
 `(I) a competitive bidding system; or
 `(II) any other cost containment measure that yields savings equal to or
 greater than savings generated by a competitive bidding system when such
 savings are determined by comparing the amounts of savings that would be
 provided over the full term of contracts offered in response to a single
 invitation to submit both competitive bids and bids for other cost containment
 systems for the sale of infant formula.
 `(ii) In determining whether a cost containment measure other than competitive
 bidding yields equal or greater savings, the State, in accordance with
 regulations issued by the Secretary, may take into account other cost factors
 (in addition to rebate levels and procedures for adjusting rebate levels
 when wholesale price levels rise), such as--
 `(I) the number of infants who would not be expected to receive the contract
 brand of infant formula under a competitive bidding system;
 `(II) the number of cans of infant formula for which no rebate would be
 provided under another rebate system; and
 `(III) differences in administrative costs relating to the implementation
 of the various cost containment systems (such as costs of converting a
 computer system for the purpose of operating a cost containment system and
 costs of preparing participants for conversion to a new or alternate cost
 containment system).
 `(C) In the case of any State that has a contract in effect on the date of
 the enactment of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989,
 subparagraph (B) shall not apply to the program operated by such State under
 this section until the term of such contract, as such term is specified by
 the contract as in effect on such date, expires. In the case of any State
 that has more than 1 such contract in effect on the date of the enactment
 of such Act, subparagraph (B) shall not apply until the term of the contract
 with the latest expiration date, as such term is specified by such contract
 as in effect on the date of the enactment of such Act, expires.
 `(D)(i) The Secretary shall waive the requirement of subparagraph (B)
 in the case of any State that demonstrates to the Secretary that--
 `(I) compliance with subparagraph (B) would be inconsistent with efficient
 or effective operation of the program operated by such State under this
 section; or
 `(II) the amount by which the savings yielded by an alternative cost
 containment system would be less than the savings yielded by a competitive
 bidding system is sufficiently minimal that the difference is not significant.
 `(ii) The Secretary shall prescribe criteria under which a waiver may be
 granted pursuant to clause (i).
 `(iii) The Secretary shall provide information at 6-month intervals to the
 Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on waivers
 that have been granted under clause (i).
 `(E)(i) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to small Indian
 State agencies carrying out this paragraph in order to assist such agencies
 to achieve the maximum cost containment savings feasible.
 `(ii) The Secretary shall also provide technical assistance, on request,
 to State agencies that do not have large caseloads and that desire to
 consider a cost containment system that covers more than 1 State agency.
 `(iii) The Secretary may waive the requirement of subparagraph (B) in the
 case of any Indian State agency that has not more than 1,000 participants.
 `(F) No State may enter into a cost containment contract (in this subparagraph
 referred to as the `original contract') that prescribes conditions that
 would void, reduce the savings under, or otherwise limit the original
 contract if the State solicited or secured bids for, or entered into, a
 subsequent cost containment contract to take effect after the expiration
 of the original contract.
 `(G) Not later than the expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date
 of the enactment of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989,
 the Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out this paragraph. Such
 regulations shall address issues involved in comparing savings from different
 cost containment measures, as provided under subparagraph (B).
 `(9) For purposes of this subsection, the term `cost containment measure'
 means a competitive bidding, rebate, direct distribution, or home delivery
 system implemented by a State agency as described in its approved plan of
 operation and administration.';
 (7) in subsection (i)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `funds provided in accordance with this
 section' and inserting `amounts made available for food benefits under
 subsection (h)(1)(C)';
 (B) in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (3)--
 (i) by striking `approved cost-savings strategies as identified in subsection
 (h)(5)(A)' and inserting `cost containment measures as defined in subsection
 (h)(9)'; and
 (ii) by striking `at the discretion of the Secretary, up to 5 percent'
 and inserting `not more than 3 percent'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(7) In addition to any amounts expended under paragraph (3)(A)(i), any
 State agency using cost containment measures as defined in subsection
 (h)(9) may temporarily use amounts made available to such agency for the
 first quarter of a fiscal year to defray expenses for costs incurred during
 the final quarter of the preceding fiscal year. In any fiscal year, any
 State agency that uses amounts made available for a succeeding fiscal year
 under the authority of the preceding sentence shall restore or reimburse
 such amounts when such agency receives payment as a result of its cost
 containment measures for such expenses.';
 (8) in subsection (j), by striking `each year' and inserting `every other
 year';
 (9) in subsection (k)(1)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking `twenty-three' and inserting `24'; and
 (B) in the second sentence, by inserting after `the Secretary;' the following:
 `1 member shall be an expert in the promotion of breast feeding;'; and
 (10) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(o)(1) Subject to the availability of funds appropriated for the purpose
 of carrying out this subsection, the Secretary is authorized to establish
 a demonstration program for the establishment of clinics for participants
 in the program under this section at community colleges that offer nursing
 education programs. In determining the location of clinics under this
 subsection, the Secretary shall consider--
 `(A) the location of the community college under consideration;
 `(B) its accessibility to individuals eligible to participate in the special
 supplemental food program under this section; and
 `(C) its willingness to operate the clinic during nontraditional hours.
 `(2) The Secretary shall, from funds appropriated for the purpose of carrying
 out this subsection--
 `(A) evaluate any demonstration program carried out under paragraph (1); and
 `(B) submit to the Congress a report containing the results of such
 evaluation.
 `(3) There is authorized to be appropriated for purposes of carrying out
 this subsection $1,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990 and such sums as may
 be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1991 and 1992.
 `(p)(1) The Secretary is authorized to make grants to State agencies for
 the purpose of improving and updating information and data systems used
 for purposes of carrying out programs under this section.
 `(2) Any State that desires to receive a grant under this subsection
 shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, and containing
 or accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may reasonably
 require. Grants shall be awarded based on the need demonstrated by States
 in their applications.
 `(3) There is authorized to be appropriated for purposes of carrying out
 this subsection $2,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990 and such sums as may
 be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994.'.
 (b) REVIEW OF PRIORITY SYSTEM-
 (1) IN GENERAL- During the fiscal years 1990 and 1991, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall conduct a review of the relationship between the nutritional
 risk criteria established under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
 and the priority system used under the special supplemental food program for
 women, infants, and children carried out under such section (hereafter in
 this section referred to as the `program'), especially as it affects pregnant
 women. In conducting such review, the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
 (A) consult with the directors of State and local agencies that operate the
 program and with other individuals with expertise in the field of nutrition;
 (B) take into consideration the preventive nature of the program; and
 (C) examine the risks to individuals eligible for participation in the
 program, particularly pregnant women, from conditions such as homelessness,
 mental illness, and conditions that pose barriers to receipt of prenatal
 care, that may be associated with an increased probability of adverse
 pregnancy outcome or other adverse effects on health.
 (2) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- The Secretary of Agriculture shall report to the
 Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate concerning
 the results of the review conducted as required by paragraph (1). Under
 the preceding sentence, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to such
 committees--
 (A) a preliminary report not later than October 1, 1990; and
 (B) a final report not later than July 1, 1991.
 (c) REPORT ON WIC FOOD PACKAGE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Agriculture shall review the appropriateness
 of foods eligible for purchase under the special supplemental food program
 for women, infants, and children carried out under section 17 of the Child
 Nutrition Act of 1966.
 (2) FACTORS- In conducting such review, the Secretary of Agriculture shall
 take into consideration such factors as--
 (A) how effectively protein, calcium, and iron are provided to participants;
 (B) nutrient density of foods; and
 (C) the extent to which nutrients, for which program participants are most
 vulnerable to deficiencies, such as iron, thiamine, riboflavin, vitamin A,
 and zinc, are effectively provided to participants.
 (3) REPORTS- The Secretary of Agriculture shall provide to the Congress--
 (A) a preliminary report on such review no later than June 30, 1991; and
 (B) a final report on such review no later than June 30, 1992.
 (d) REPORT ON COSTS FOR NUTRITION SERVICES AND ADMINISTRATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Agriculture shall review the effect on
 costs for nutrition services and administration incurred by State and
 local agencies of this section, section 213, and the amendments made by
 such sections (including the effect of both increases and decreases in
 requirements imposed on such agencies).
 (2) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the appropriate committees
 of the Congress a report on the results of the review conducted under
 this subsection.
 (e) PAPERWORK REDUCTION- In implementing and monitoring compliance with the
 provisions of the amendments made by this section (other than the amendment
 made by subsection (a)(2) to section 17(d)(2) of the Child Nutrition Act of
 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(d)(2)), the Secretary of Agriculture shall not impose
 any new requirement on a State or local agency that would require the State
 or local agency to place additional paperwork or documentation in a case
 file maintained by a local agency.
 (f) IMPLEMENTATION-
 (1) BREASTFEEDING PROMOTION; NUTRITION EDUCATION; OUTREACH- Not later than
 July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue final regulations
 to implement the amendments made by subsections (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4).
 (2) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION; ALLOCATIONS- The amendments made by
 subsections (a)(5), (a)(6), and (a)(7) shall be effective as of October
 1, 1989.
SEC. 124. NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
 Section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1788) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d)--
 (A) in paragraph (1)--
 (i) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows: `(B) training school
 food service personnel in the principles and practices of food service
 management, in cooperation with materials developed at any food service
 management institute established as authorized by section 21(a)(2) of the
 National School Lunch Act, and'; and
 (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking `schools and child care institutions'
 and inserting `schools, child care institutions, and institutions offering
 summer food service programs under section 13 of the National School
 Lunch Act';
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `the National Advisory Council on Child
 Nutrition;'; and
 (C) in the first sentence of paragraph (4), by inserting before the period
 the following: `, in coordination with the activities authorized under
 section 21 of the National School Lunch Act';
 (2) in subparagraph (C) of subsection (h)(3), by striking `the National
 Advisory Council on Child Nutrition,';
 (3) by amending paragraph (2) of subsection (i) to read as follows:
 `(2)(A) There is authorized to be appropriated for grants to each State
 for the conduct of nutrition education and information programs--
 `(i) $10,000,000 for the fiscal year 1990;
 `(ii) $15,000,000 for the fiscal year 1991;
 `(iii) $20,000,000 for the fiscal year 1992; and
 `(iv) $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994.
 `(B)(i)(I) Subject to clause (ii), grants to each State from the amounts
 appropriated under subparagraph (A) shall be based on a rate of 50 cents
 for each child enrolled in schools or institutions within such State.
 `(II) If the amount appropriated for any fiscal year is insufficient to
 pay the amount to which each State is entitled under subclause (I), the
 amount of each grant shall be ratably reduced. If additional funds become
 available for making such payments, such amounts shall be increased on the
 same basis as they were reduced.
 `(ii) No State shall receive an amount that is less than--
 `(I) $50,000, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for
 purposes of this section is less than $10,000,000;
 `(II) $62,500, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for
 purposes of this section is $10,000,000 or more but is less than $15,000,000;
 `(III) $68,750, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated
 for purposes of this section is $15,000,000 or more but is less than
 $20,000,000; and
 `(IV) $75,000 in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for
 purposes of this section is $20,000,000 or more.'; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(j)(1) The Secretary shall assess the nutrition information and education
 program carried out under this section to determine what nutrition education
 needs are for children participating under the National School Lunch Act
 in the school lunch program, the summer food service program, and the child
 care food program.
 `(2) The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall be completed not later
 than October 1, 1990.'.
PART C--CROSS-PROGRAM PROVISIONS
SEC. 131. DETERMINATION OF TOTAL COMMODITY ASSISTANCE FOR THE SCHOOL LUNCH
AND CHILD CARE FOOD PROGRAMS.
 (a) SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM- Section 6(e) of the National School Lunch Act
 (42 U.S.C. 1755(e)) is amended--
 (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(1)(A) The national average value of donated foods, or cash payments in
 lieu thereof, shall be 11 cents, adjusted on July 1, 1982, and each July 1
 thereafter to reflect changes in the Price Index for Food Used in Schools
 and Institutions. The Index shall be computed using 5 major food components
 in the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Producer Price Index (cereal and bakery
 products, meats, poultry and fish, dairy products, processed fruits and
 vegetables, and fats and oils). Each component shall be weighed using the
 same relative weight as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 `(B) The value of food assistance for each meal shall be adjusted each July
 1 by the annual percentage change in a 3-month average value of the Price
 Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions for March, April, and May
 each year. Such adjustment shall be computed to the nearest  1/4  cent.
 `(C) For each school year, the total commodity assistance or cash in lieu
 thereof available to a State for the school lunch program shall be calculated
 by multiplying the number of lunches served in the preceding school year by
 the rate established by subparagraph (B). After the end of each school year,
 the Secretary shall reconcile the number of lunches served by schools in each
 State with the number of lunches served by schools in each State during the
 preceding school year and increase or reduce subsequent commodity assistance
 or cash in lieu thereof provided to each State based on such reconciliation.
 `(D) Among those commodities delivered under this section, the Secretary
 shall give special emphasis to high protein foods, meat, and meat alternates
 (which may include domestic seafood commodities and their products).
 `(E) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, not less than 75
 percent of the assistance provided under this subsection shall be in the
 form of donated foods for the school lunch program.'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `Each State agency' and inserting `To
 the maximum extent feasible, each State agency'.
 (b) CHILD CARE FOOD PROGRAM- Paragraph (1) of section 17(h) of the National
 School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(h)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(1)(A) The Secretary shall donate agricultural commodities produced in the
 United States for use in institutions participating in the child care food
 program under this section.
 `(B) The value of the commodities donated under subparagraph (A) (or cash
 in lieu of commodities) to each State for each school year shall be,
 at a minimum, the amount obtained by multiplying the number of lunches
 and suppers served in participating institutions in that State during
 the preceding school year by the rate for commodities or cash in lieu of
 commodities established under section 6(e) for the school year concerned.
 `(C) After the end of each school year, the Secretary shall--
 `(i) reconcile the number of lunches and suppers served in participating
 institutions in each State during such school year with the number of lunches
 and suppers served by participating institutions in each State during the
 preceding school year; and
 `(ii) based on such reconciliation, increase or reduce subsequent commodity
 assistance or cash in lieu of commodities provided to each State.
 `(D) Any State receiving assistance under this section for institutions
 participating in the child care food program may, upon application to the
 Secretary, receive cash in lieu of some or all of the commodities to which
 it would otherwise be entitled under this subsection. In determining whether
 to request cash in lieu of commodities, the State shall base its decision on
 the preferences of individual participating institutions within the State,
 unless this proves impracticable due to the small number of institutions
 preferring donated commodities.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall become
 effective on July 1, 1989.
TITLE II--PAPERWORK REDUCTION AMENDMENTS
PART A--REDUCTION OF PAPERWORK UNDER THE NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT
SEC. 201. PERMANENCY OF STATE-LOCAL AGREEMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE SCHOOL
LUNCH PROGRAM.
 Section 8 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1757) is amended
 by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentences: `The
 agreements described in the preceding sentence shall be permanent agreements
 that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be
 construed to limit the ability of the State educational agency to suspend
 or terminate any such agreement in accordance with regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 202. INCOME DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 9(b) of the National School Lunch Act (42
 U.S.C. 1758(b)), as similarly amended first by section 323 of the School
 Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law
 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-361), later by section 323 of the School Lunch and
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law 99-591 (100
 Stat. 3341-364), and later by section 4203 of the Child Nutrition Amendments
 of 1986, as contained in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
 Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), and as then amended by section 1 of Public
 Law 100-356, is amended to read as if only the amendment made by section
 4203 of the Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986 was enacted.
 (2) FREE LUNCH PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY UNDER PUBLIC LAW 100-356- (A) Section
 9(b)(1)(A) of the National School Lunch Act (as amended by paragraph (1)
 of this subsection) (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(1)(A)) is amended--
 (i) in the second sentence, by striking `For the school years ending June
 30, 1982, and June 30, 1983, the' and inserting `The'; and
 (ii) by striking the third sentence.
 (B) The amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall take effect as if such
 amendments had been effective on June 28, 1988.
 (b) INCOME DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS- Section 9 of the National School
 Lunch Act (as amended by subsection (a) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 1758)
 is amended--
 (1) by amending subparagraph (C) of subsection (b)(2) to read as follows:
 `(C)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), each eligibility determination
 shall be made on the basis of a complete application executed by an adult
 member of the household. The Secretary, State, or local food authority
 may verify any data contained in such application. A local school food
 authority shall undertake such verification of information contained in
 any such application as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe and,
 in accordance with such regulations, shall make appropriate changes in the
 eligibility determination with respect to such application on the basis of
 such verification.
 `(ii) Subject to clause (iii), any school food authority may certify any
 child as eligible for free or reduced price lunches or breakfasts, without
 further application, by directly communicating with the appropriate State or
 local agency to obtain documentation of such child's status as a member of--
 `(I) a household that is receiving food stamps under the Food Stamp Act of
 1977; or
 `(II) a family that is receiving assistance under the program for aid to
 families with dependent children under part A of title IV of the Social
 Security Act.
 `(iii) School food service authorities shall only use information obtained
 under clause (ii) for the purpose of determining eligibility for participation
 in programs under this Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.';
 (2) in subsection (d)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `numbers of all adult' and all that
 follows and inserting the following: `number of the parent or guardian
 who is the primary wage earner responsible for the care of the child for
 whom the application is made, or that of another appropriate adult member
 of the child's household, as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary
 shall require that social security account numbers of all adult members
 of the household be provided if verification of the data contained in the
 application is sought under subsection (b)(2)(C).';
 (B) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) appropriate documentation relating to the income of such household
 (as prescribed by the Secretary) has been provided to the appropriate local
 school food authority so that such authority may calculate the total income
 of such household;';
 (ii) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
 `; or'; and
 (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) documentation has been provided to the appropriate local school food
 authority showing that the family is receiving assistance under the program
 for aid to families with dependent children under part A of title IV of
 the Social Security Act.'.
 (c) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final regulations to implement the amendments made by subsection
 (b).
SEC. 203. REPORTS TO STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.
 Paragraph (1) of section 11(e) of the National School Lunch Act (42
 U.S.C. 1759a(e)) is amended by striking `Each school' and all that
 follows through `State educational agency' and inserting the following:
 `The Secretary, when appropriate, may request each school participating
 in the school lunch program under this Act to report monthly to the State
 educational agency'.
SEC. 204. 2-YEAR APPLICATIONS UNDER CHILD CARE FOOD PROGRAM.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Subsection (d) of section 17 of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
 respectively;
 (2) by inserting `(1)' after `(d)'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall develop a policy that allows institutions
 providing child care that participate in the program under this section,
 at the option of the State agency, to reapply for assistance under this
 section at 2-year intervals.
 `(B) Each State agency that exercises the option authorized by subparagraph
 (A) shall confirm on an annual basis that each such institution is in
 compliance with the licensing or approval provisions of subsection (a)(1).'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary shall issue
 final regulations to implement the amendments made by subsection (a).
SEC. 205. PILOT PROJECTS FOR ALTERNATIVE COUNTING METHODS.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Section 18 of the National School Lunch Act (as
 amended by section 107(2) of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1769) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1)(A) The Secretary shall carry out a pilot program for purposes of
 identifying alternatives to--
 `(i) daily counting by category of meals provided by school lunch programs
 under this Act; and
 `(ii) annual applications for eligibility to receive free meals or reduced
 price meals.
 `(B) For the purposes of carrying out the pilot program under this paragraph,
 the Secretary may waive requirements of this Act relating to counting of
 meals provided by school lunch programs and applications for eligibility.
 `(C) For the purposes of carrying out the pilot program under this paragraph,
 the Secretary shall solicit proposals from State educational agencies and
 local educational agencies for the alternatives described in subparagraph (A).
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall carry out a pilot program under which a limited
 number of schools participating in the special assistance program under
 section 11(a)(1) that have in attendance children at least 80 percent of
 whom are eligible for free lunches or reduced price lunches shall submit
 applications for a 3-year period.
 `(B) Each school participating in the pilot program under this paragraph
 shall have the option of determining the number of free meals, reduced price
 meals, and paid meals provided daily under the school lunch program operated
 by such school by applying percentages determined under subparagraph (C)
 to the daily total student meal count.
 `(C) The percentages determined under this subparagraph shall be established
 on the basis of the master roster of students enrolled in the school
 concerned, which--
 `(i) shall include a notation as to the eligibility status of each student
 with respect to the school lunch program; and
 `(ii) shall be updated not later than September 30 of each year.
 `(3)(A) The Secretary shall carry out a pilot program under which a limited
 number of schools participating in the special assistance program under
 section 11(a)(1) that have universal free school lunch programs shall have
 the option of determining the number of free meals, reduced price meals,
 and paid meals provided daily under the school lunch program operated
 by such school by applying percentages determined under subparagraph (B)
 to the daily total student meal count.
 `(B) The percentages determined under this subparagraph shall be established
 on the basis of the master roster of students enrolled in the school
 concerned, which--
 `(i) shall include a notation as to the eligibility status of each student
 with respect to the school lunch program; and
 `(ii) shall be updated not later than September 30 of each year.
 `(C) For the purposes of this paragraph, a universal free school lunch
 program is a program under which the school operating the program elects
 to serve all children in that school free lunches under the school lunch
 program during any period of 3 successive years and pays, from sources
 other than Federal funds, for the costs of serving such lunches which are
 in excess of the value of assistance received under this Act with respect
 to the number of lunches served during that period.
 `(4) In addition to the pilot projects described in this subsection, the
 Secretary may conduct other pilot projects to test alternative counting
 and claiming procedures.
 `(5) Each pilot program carried out under this subsection shall be evaluated
 by the Secretary after it has been in operation for 3 years.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final regulations to implement section 18(g) of the National
 School Lunch Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section).
PART B--REDUCTION OF PAPERWORK UNDER THE CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966
SEC. 211. STATE-LOCAL AGREEMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISION- Section 3(a) of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1772(a)), as similarly amended first by section 329
 of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained
 in Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-365) and later by section 4209 of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to
 read as if only the later amendment was enacted.
 (b) STATE-LOCAL AGREEMENTS- Subsection (a) of section 3 of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966 (as amended by subsection (a) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 1772)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(10) The State educational agency shall disburse funds paid to the State
 during any fiscal year for purposes of carrying out the program under this
 section in accordance with such agreements approved by the Secretary as
 may be entered into by such State agency and the schools in the State. The
 agreements described in the preceding sentence shall be permanent agreements
 that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be
 construed to limit the ability of the State educational agency to suspend
 or terminate any such agreement in accordance with regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 212. PERMANENCY OF STATE-LOCAL AGREEMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE SCHOOL
BREAKFAST PROGRAM.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 4(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
 U.S.C. 1773(b)), as similarly amended first by section 330(a) of the
 School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-366) and later by section 4210(a) of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), and as then
 amended by section 210 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (Public Law
 100-435) is amended to read as if only the amendment made by section 4210(a)
 of the Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National
 Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987, was enacted.
 (2) IMPROVEMENT OF SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM UNDER HUNGER PREVENTION ACT- (A)
 The first sentence of section 4(b)(3) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
 U.S.C. 1773(b)(3)) is amended by striking `3 cents' and inserting `6 cents'.
 (B) The amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall take effect as if such
 amendments had been effective on July 1, 1989.
 (b) STATE-LOCAL AGREEMENTS- Subparagraph (A) of section 4(b)(1) of the
 Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as amended by subsection (a) of this section)
 (42 U.S.C. 1773(b)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II);
 (2) by inserting `(i)' after `(A)'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ii) The agreements described in clause (i)(I) shall be permanent agreements
 that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be
 construed to limit the ability of the State educational agency to suspend
 or terminate any such agreement in accordance with regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 213. PAPERWORK REDUCTION REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL
FOOD PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as
 amended by section 123 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1786) is amended--
 (1) by adding at the end of subsection (e) the following new paragraph:
 `(5) Each local agency may use a master file to document and monitor the
 provision of nutrition education services (other than the initial provision of
 such services) to individuals that are required, under standards prescribed
 by the Secretary, to be included by the agency in group nutrition education
 classes.'; and
 (2) in subsection (f)--
 (A) in paragraph (7)--
 (i) by inserting `(A)' after `(7)'; and
 (ii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) State agencies may provide for the delivery of vouchers to any
 participant who is not scheduled for nutrition education counseling or a
 recertification interview through means, such as mailing, that do not require
 the participant to travel to the local agency to obtain vouchers. The State
 agency shall describe any plans for issuance of vouchers by mail in its plan
 submitted under paragraph (1). The Secretary may disapprove a State plan with
 respect to the issuance of vouchers by mail in any specified jurisdiction or
 part of a jurisdiction within a State only if the Secretary finds that such
 issuance would pose a significant threat to the integrity of the program
 under this section in such jurisdiction or part of a jurisdiction.'; and
 (B) by adding after paragraph (20) (as added by section 123(a)(3)(F) of
 this Act) the following new paragraph:
 `(21) Each State agency shall conduct monitoring reviews of each local
 agency at least biennially.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than July 1, 1990, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final regulations to implement the amendments made by subsection
 (a).
SEC. 214. UPDATING OF PLANS FOR NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
 Paragraph (3) of section 19(h) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as amended
 by section 124 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1788(h)) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new sentence: `Each plan developed as required by
 this section shall be updated on an annual basis.'.
TITLE III--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
PART A--AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT
SEC. 301. APPORTIONMENTS TO STATES.
 The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by
 inserting before section 4 the following new heading:
`APPORTIONMENTS TO STATES'.
SEC. 302. DIRECT FEDERAL EXPENDITURES.
 Section 6(a) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `his' and inserting `the Secretary's';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `him' and inserting `the Secretary'; and
 (3) in the matter following paragraph (3)--
 (A) by striking `him' and inserting `the Secretary';
 (B) by striking `(50 Stat. 323)'; and
 (C) by striking `(49 Stat. 774), as amended'.
SEC. 303. PAYMENTS TO STATES.
 (a) INSERTION OF SECTION HEADING- The National School Lunch Act (42
 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by inserting before section 7 the following
 new heading:
`PAYMENTS TO STATES'.
 (b) CORRECTION OF TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR- Paragraph (2) of section 7(a) of
 the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1756(a)) is amended by striking
 `the the' and inserting `the'.
SEC. 304. STATE DISBURSEMENT TO SCHOOLS.
 Subsection (d) of section 8 of the National School Lunch Act (as designated
 by section 201 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1757) is amended--
 (1) by striking `persons' and inserting `individuals';
 (2) by striking `to be mentally or physically handicapped' and inserting
 `to have 1 or more mental or physical handicaps'; and
 (3) by striking `for mentally or physically handicapped' and inserting
 `for individuals with mental or physical handicaps'.
SEC. 305. NUTRITIONAL AND OTHER PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISION- Section 9(e) of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(e)), as similarly added first by section 324 of the
 School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public
 Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-361), later by section 324 of the School Lunch
 and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law 99-591
 (100 Stat. 3341-364), and later by section 4204 of the Child Nutrition
 Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense Authorization Act
 for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to read as if only
 the latest amendment was enacted.
 (b) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 9 of the National School
 Lunch Act (as amended by sections 101 and 202 of this Act and subsection
 (a) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 1758) is amended--
 (1) by striking `family-size' each place it appears and inserting `family
 size'; and
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking `School-lunch' and inserting
 `School lunch';
 (B) in the third sentence, by striking `(49 Stat. 774), as amended'; and
 (C) in the fourth sentence, by striking `, as amended,' each place it appears.
SEC. 306. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS-
 (1) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY- Section 12(d)(8) of the National School Lunch
 Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(d)(8)), as similarly added first by section 373(a) of the
 School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public
 Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-369), later by section 373(a) of the School Lunch
 and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in Public Law 99-591
 (100 Stat. 3341-372), and later by section 4503(a) of the Child Nutrition
 Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense Authorization Act
 for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to read as if only
 the latest amendment was enacted.
 (2) USE OF SCHOOL LUNCH FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PROGRAMS- Section 12(i) of
 the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(i)), as similarly added first
 by section 326 of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986,
 as contained in Public Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-361), later by section 326
 of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-365), and later by section 4206 of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to
 read as if only the latest amendment was enacted.
 (b) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 12 of the National School
 Lunch Act (as amended by subsection (a)) (42 U.S.C. 1760) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b), by striking `his' each place it appears and inserting
 `the Secretary's';
 (2) in paragraph (5) of subsection (d), by striking `Internal Revenue Code
 of 1954' and inserting `Internal Revenue Code of 1986';
 (3) in subsection (g), by striking `his' and inserting `personal'; and
 (4) in subsection (i) (as amended by subsection (a)(2))--
 (A) by striking `(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.)'; and
 (B) by striking `(42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.)'.
SEC. 307. SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN.
 Section 13 of the National School Lunch Act (as amended by section 102 of
 this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1761) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d), by striking `July 1,' and inserting `July 1';
 (2) in the third sentence of subsection (f), by striking `prescribed'
 and inserting `prescribe';
 (3) in the first sentence of subsection (g), by striking `: Provided'
 and all that follows through `respectively'; and
 (4) in subsection (h)--
 (A) by striking `(7 U.S.C. 1431)';
 (B) by striking `(7 U.S.C. 612c)'; and
 (C) by striking `(7 U.S.C. 1446a-1)'.
SEC. 308. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION RELATING TO TEMPORARY EMERGENCY
ASSISTANCE.
 Section 13A of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1762) is repealed.
SEC. 309. ELECTION TO RECEIVE CASH PAYMENTS.
 The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended by
 inserting before section 16 the following new heading:
`ELECTION TO RECEIVE CASH PAYMENTS'.
SEC. 310. CHILD CARE FOOD PROGRAM.
 (a) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 17 of the National
 School Lunch Act (as amended by sections 105, 131, and 204 of this Act)
 (42 U.S.C. 1766) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `handicapped children' each place it
 appears and inserting `children with handicaps';
 (2) in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) (as redesignated by section
 204(1) of this Act), by striking `Internal Revenue Code of 1954' and inserting
 `Internal Revenue Code of 1986';
 (3) in subsection (f)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `day-care' and inserting `day care'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2), by striking the second period; and
 (4) by striking subsection (k) (and redesignating the succeeding subsections
 accordingly).
 (b) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISION- Section 17(e) of the National School
 Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(e)), as similarly amended first by section 361
 of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained
 in Public Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783-367), later by section 361 of the
 School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-370), and later by section 4401 of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to
 read as if only the latest amendment was enacted.
SEC. 311. PILOT PROJECTS.
 Section 18 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) (as amended
 by sections 107 and 205 of this Act) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (a), (b), and (c), and redesignating the
 succeeding subsections accordingly; and
 (2) in subsection (a) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
 (A) by striking `(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.)'; and
 (B) by striking `(42 U.S.C. 1774)'.
SEC. 312. GENERAL AMENDMENTS.
 The National School Lunch Act (as otherwise amended by this Act) (42
 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by striking `school-lunch' each place it appears and inserting `school
 lunch';
 (2) by striking `reduced-price' each place it appears and inserting `reduced
 price'; and
 (3) by striking `special-assistance' each place it appears and inserting
 `special assistance'.
PART B--AMENDMENTS TO THE CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966
SEC. 321. SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.
 Section 3(a) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as amended by section 211
 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1772(a)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by striking `he' and inserting
 `the Secretary';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.)';
 (3) in paragraph (4), by striking `he' and inserting `the Secretary'; and
 (4) in paragraph (5), by striking `their' and inserting `its'.
SEC. 322. SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.
 Section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as amended by sections 121
 and 212 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1773) is amended--
 (1) by striking `reduced-price' each place it appears and inserting `reduced
 price'; and
 (2) in paragraph (3) of subsection (b), by striking `(42 U.S.C. 1766)'.
SEC. 323. REGULATIONS.
 The first sentence of section 10 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
 U.S.C. 1786) is amended by striking `he' and inserting `the Secretary'.
SEC. 324. APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE.
 (a) INSERTION OF SECTION HEADING- The Child Nutrition Act of 1966
 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) is amended by inserting before section 14 the
 following heading:
`APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE'.
 (b) ELIMINATION OF GENDER-SPECIFIC POSSESSIVE PRONOUN- Section 14 of the
 Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1783) is amended--
 (1) by striking `is' and inserting `are'; and
 (2) by striking `his' and inserting `the Secretary's'.
SEC. 325. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
 Section 15 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1784) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b), by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as
 subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
 (2) by redesignating subsections (a) through (f) as paragraphs (1) through
 (6), respectively;
 (3) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section),
 by striking `Internal Revenue Code of 1954' and inserting `Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986'; and
 (4) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section)--
 (A) by striking `to be mentally or physically handicapped' and inserting
 `to have 1 or more mental or physical handicaps'; and
 (B) by striking `for mentally or physically handicapped' and inserting
 `for individuals with mental or physical handicaps'.
SEC. 326. SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM.
 (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS-
 (1) STATE ELIGIBILITY FOR WIC FUNDS- Section 17(c)(4) of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(c)(4)), as similarly amended first by section
 342(a) of the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as
 contained in Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-367) and later by section
 4302(a) of the Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661),
 is amended to read as if the later amendment had not been enacted.
 (2) BIENNIAL REPORT- Section 17(d)(4) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
 (42 U.S.C. 1786(d)(4)), as similarly amended first by section 343(a) of
 the School Lunch and Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in
 Public Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341-367) and later by section 4303(a) of the
 Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986, as contained in the National Defense
 Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 (Public Law 99-661), is amended to
 read as if the later amendment had not been enacted.
 (b) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 17 of the Child Nutrition
 Act of 1966 (as amended by sections 123 and 213 of this Act and subsection
 (a) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 1786) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3) of subsection (c), by striking `section 1304 of the
 Food and Agriculture Act of 1977' and inserting `section 4 of the Agriculture
 and Consumer Protection Act of 1973';
 (2) in subsection (d)--
 (A) by moving the margin of paragraph (4) 2 ems to the left, so that the
 left margin of such paragraph is indented 2 ems and is aligned with the
 margin of paragraph (3); and
 (B) in paragraph (4), by moving the margins of subparagraphs (A) through
 (C) 2 ems to the left, so that the left margin of each such subparagraph
 is indented 4 ems;
 (3) in subsection (f)--
 (A) in paragraph (8), by striking `persons' each place it appears and
 inserting `individuals';
 (B) in paragraph (10)--
 (i) by striking `a person' and inserting `an individual';
 (ii) by striking `person's' and inserting `individual's'; and
 (iii) by striking `the person' and inserting `the individual'; and
 (C) by moving the margin of paragraph (17) 2 ems to the left, so that the
 left margin of such paragraph is indented 2 ems and is aligned with the
 margin of paragraph (16);
 (4) in subsection (m)--
 (A) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (7), by striking `(7 U.S.C. 2011 et
 seq.)'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11), by striking `person' and inserting
 `individual'; and
 (5) in paragraph (1) of subsection (n), by striking `this Act' and inserting
 `the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988'.
SEC. 327. NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
 Section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (as amended by sections 124
 and 214 of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 1788) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d)--
 (A) in paragraph (2), by striking the semicolon each place it appears and
 inserting a comma;
 (B) in the first sentence of paragraph (4)--
 (i) by striking `(12 Stat.' and all that follows through `308)'; and
 (ii) by striking `(26 Stat.' and all that follows through `328)'; and
 (C) in paragraph (5)--
 (i) by striking `(12 Stat.' and all that follows through `308)'; and
 (ii) by striking `(26 Stat.' and all that follows through `328)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (3) of subsection (h)--
 (A) by striking `(12 Stat.' and all that follows through `308)'; and
 (B) by striking `(26 Stat.' and all that follows through `328)'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.