 
! H2088  EXT .ENR EDITED BY "EDBILL" ON 12-OCT-89
--H.R.2088--
H.R.2088
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To revise and extend the programs established in the Temporary Child Care for
Handicapped Children and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Children With Disabilities Temporary Care
 Reauthorization Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES.
 The Temporary Child Care for Handicapped Children and Crisis Nurseries Act
 of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117) is amended--
 (1) in section 203, in the first sentence, by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities'; and
 (2) in section 205--
 (A) by striking `working with handicapped' and all that follows through
 `families' in subsection (a)(2)(C), and inserting the following: `working
 with children with disabilities, with chronically ill children, and with
 the families of such children,'; and
 (B) by striking `the term' and all that follows through `such term in' in
 subsection (d)(2), and inserting the following: `the term `children with
 disabilities' has the meaning given the term `handicapped children' in'.
SEC. 3. STATE INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 205(a)(1) of the Temporary Child Care for Handicapped
 Children and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117) is amended--
 (1)(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (D) as clauses (i) through
 (iv), respectively;
 (B) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated), by striking `and' after the
 semicolon at the end;
 (C) in clause (iv) (as so redesignated), by striking the period at the end
 and inserting `; and'; and
 (D) by inserting after such clause (iv) the following new clause:
 `(v) with respect to State agencies described in subparagraph (B), provide
 documentation of a commitment by all such agencies to develop a State plan
 for coordination among the agencies in carrying out programs and activities
 provided by the State pursuant to a grant under section 203.'; and
 (2)(A) by inserting `(A)' after `(1)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) State agencies referred to in subparagraph (A)(v) are State agencies
 responsible for providing services to children with disabilities or with
 chronic or terminal illnesses, or responsible for financing services for
 such children, or both, including State agencies responsible for carrying
 out State programs that--
 `(i) receive Federal financial assistance; and
 `(ii) relate to social services, maternal and child health, comprehensive
 health and mental health, medical assistance and infants, or toddlers
 and families.'.
 (b) DEFINITION- Section 205(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5117c(d)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking out `and' at the end thereof;
 (2) in paragraph (4), by striking out the period and inserting in lieu
 thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) the term `State' means any of the several States, the District of
 Columbia, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto
 Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
 the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or Palau.'.
SEC. 4. REPORTS.
 Section 205(c) of the Temporary Child Care for Handicapped Children and
 Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117) is amended in the second
 sentence to read as follows: `Such report shall include--
 `(1)(A) information concerning costs, the number of participants, impact on
 family stability, the incidence of abuse and neglect, the types, amounts,
 and costs of various services provided, demographic data on recipients of
 services, and such other information as the Secretary may require; and
 `(B) with respect to services provided by the States pursuant to section
 203, information concerning the number of families receiving services and
 documentation of parental satisfaction with the services provided;
 `(2) a specification of the amount and source of public funds, and of
 private funds, expended in the State for temporary child care for children
 with disabilities or with chronic or terminal illnesses; and
 `(3) a State strategy for expanding the availability in the State of
 temporary child care, and other family support, for families of children
 with disabilities or with chronic or terminal illnesses, which strategy
 specifies the manner in which the State intends to expend any Federal
 financial assistance available to the State for such purpose, including
 any such assistance provided to the State for programs described in section
 205(a)(1)(B).'.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 206 of the Temporary Child Care for Handicapped Children and Crisis
 Nurseries Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by inserting before the period the following:
 `, and $20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1990 and 1991'; and
 (2) in the second sentence, by striking `Such sums' and inserting `Amounts
 appropriated under the preceding sentence'.
SEC. 6. REVISION OF SHORT TITLE.
 Section 201 of the Temporary Child Care for Handicapped Children and Crisis
 Nurseries Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117) is amended by striking `This title'
 and all that follows and inserting the following: `This title may be cited
 as the `Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis
 Nurseries Act of 1986'.'.
SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by this Act shall take effect October 1, 1989, or on
 the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs later.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.