 
--H.R.4010--
H.R.4010
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide the Secretary of Agriculture authority regarding the sale of sterile
screwworms.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act of February 28, 1947
 (61 Stat. 7; 21 U.S.C. 114b et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in the first section--
 (A) by inserting at the beginning `SECTION 1. COOPERATION IN ANIMAL DISEASE
 CONTROL- ', and
 (B) by striking `screw-worm' and inserting `screwworm';
 (2) in section 2 by inserting after `SEC. 2.' the heading `USE OF FUNDS- ';
 (3) by inserting after section 2 the following:
 `SEC. 3. SALE OF STERILE SCREWWORMS- (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding section
 1, the Secretary of Agriculture may, independently or in cooperation with
 any foreign government or any international organization or association,
 produce and sell sterile screwworms to any foreign government or to any
 international organization or association, if the Secretary determines that
 the protection of livestock and related industries of the United States
 will not be adversely affected by such production and sale.
 `(b) TERMS OF SALE- The Secretary may provide for the sale of screwworms
 under subsection (a) under such terms and conditions as the Secretary
 considers appropriate.
 `(c) DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS- (1) INDEPENDENT SALES- If the Secretary
 independently produces and sells screwworms under subsection (a), the proceeds
 of such sales shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States and
 be credited to the appropriation from which the operating expenses of the
 facility producing the screwworms have been paid.
 `(2) COOPERATIVE SALES- If the Secretary produces and sells screwworms in
 cooperation with a foreign government or an international organization or
 association, the proceeds of such sale shall be divided between the United
 States and such government, organization, or association, as determined
 by the Secretary, and the United States portion of such proceeds shall be
 deposited into the Treasury of the United States and be credited to the
 appropriation from which the operating expenses of the facility producing
 the screwworms have been paid.';
 (4) in section 4 by inserting after `SEC. 4.' the heading `AUTHORIZATION
 OF APPROPRIATIONS- ';
 (5) in section 5 by inserting after `SEC. 5.' the heading `COOPERATION WITH
 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTITIES- '; and
 (6) by adding at the end the following new section:
 `SEC. 6. SHORT TITLE- This Act may be referred to as the `Animal Disease
 Control Cooperation Act of 1947'.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.