 
--H.R.4273--
H.R.4273
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to extend the program of grants
for preventive health services with respect to tuberculosis, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Tuberculosis Prevention Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES WITH
RESPECT TO TUBERCULOSIS.
 (a) PROGRAM FOR ELIMINATING TUBERCULOSIS- Section 317 of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (j)(2), in the first sentence, by striking `preventive
 health service programs for tuberculosis' and inserting the following:
 `preventive health service programs for the prevention, control, and
 elimination of tuberculosis'; and
 (2) in subsection (k)(2), in each of subparagraphs (A) through (D), by
 striking `prevention and control' each place such term appears and inserting
 `prevention, control, and elimination'.
 (b) ADVISORY COUNCIL ON ELIMINATING TUBERCULOSIS- Section 317 of the Public
 Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsection:
 `(l)(1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory council to be known as
 the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis (hereafter in
 this subsection referred to as the `Council'). The Council shall provide
 advice and recommendations regarding the elimination of tuberculosis to
 the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary for Health, and the Director of the
 Centers for Disease Control.
 `(2) With respect to the elimination of tuberculosis, the Council shall--
 `(A) in making recommendations under paragraph (1), make recommendations
 regarding policies, strategies, objectives, and priorities;
 `(B) address the development and application of new technologies; and
 `(C) review the extent to which progress has been made toward eliminating
 tuberculosis.
 `(3) The Secretary shall determine the size and composition of the Council,
 and the frequency and scope of official meetings of the Council.
 `(4) The Secretary shall provide to the Council such staff, information, and
 other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the Council.'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 317(j)(2) of the Public
 Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b(j)(2)) is amended in the first sentence
 by striking `and' after `1989,', and by inserting before the period the
 following: `, $36,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1995'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.