 
--H.R.3012--
H.R.3012
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
Making appropriations for military construction for the Department of
Defense for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated,
 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
 fiscal year ending September 30, 1990, for military construction functions
 administered by the Department of Defense, and for other purposes, namely:
Military Construction, Army
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
 property for the Army as currently authorized by law, and for construction
 and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander in
 Chief, $819,129,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided,
 That of this amount, not to exceed $79,420,000 shall be available for study,
 planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law,
 unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are
 necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations
 of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.
Military Construction, Navy
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, and real
 property for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including personnel
 in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal services
 necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, $1,139,250,000, to
 remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided, That of this amount,
 not to exceed $82,000,000 shall be available for study, planning, design,
 architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary
 of Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such
 purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of
 Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further,
 That none of the funds available to the Department of the Navy in this or
 any other Act may be utilized to initiate agricultural leases of more than
 one year's duration on land in or around Naval Air Station Fallon, Nevada.
Military Construction, Air Force
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
 property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, $1,227,296,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided, That of this amount,
 not to exceed $99,000,000 shall be available for study, planning, design,
 architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary
 of Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such
 purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of
 Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor: Provided further,
 That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction, Air Force'
 under Public Law 100-447, $18,500,000 is hereby rescinded.
Military Construction, Defense Agencies
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
 For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
 or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real property
 for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the
 military departments), as currently authorized by law, $537,440,000, to
 remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided, That such amounts of
 this appropriation as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be
 transferred to such appropriations of the Department of Defense available
 for military construction as he may designate, to be merged with and to
 be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the
 appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the
 amount appropriated, not to exceed $86,300,000 shall be available for study,
 planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law,
 unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are
 necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations
 of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Defense Agencies' under Public Law 100-202, $10,000,000 is hereby rescinded:
 Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for `Military Construction,
 Defense Agencies' under Public Law 100-447, $11,800,000 is hereby rescinded:
 Provided further, That, effective February 1, 1990, none of the unobligated
 funds appropriated in this Act for Defense Medical Facilities Office
 planning and design may be obligated until the Defense Medical Facilities
 Office initiates design of the aerospace medicine facility as required by
 the conference report accompanying Public Law 100-447.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure
 For the United States share of the cost of North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 Infrastructure programs for the acquisition and construction of military
 facilities and installations (including international military headquarters)
 and for related expenses for the collective defense of the North Atlantic
 Treaty Area as authorized in military construction Acts and section 2806
 of title 10, United States Code, $424,714,000, to remain available until
 expended.
Military Construction, Army National Guard
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the Army National Guard,
 and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $223,490,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1994.
Military Construction, Air National Guard
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the Air National Guard,
 and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $238,330,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1994.
Military Construction, Army Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
 of facilities for the training and administration of the Army Reserve as
 authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
 construction authorization Acts, $97,460,000, to remain available until
 September 30, 1994.
Military Construction, Naval Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
 facilities for the training and administration of the reserve components of
 the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
 States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $56,600,000,
 to remain available until September 30, 1994.
Military Construction, Air Force Reserve
 For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
 of facilities for the training and administration of the Air Force Reserve
 as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
 construction authorization Acts, $46,200,000, to remain available until
 September 30, 1994.
Family Housing, Army
 For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, including
 acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and alteration
 and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor
 construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as
 authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $78,982,000; for Operation
 and maintenance, and for debt payment, $1,375,000,000; in all $1,453,982,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1994.
Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps
 For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for construction,
 including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and
 alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment,
 leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance
 premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $174,621,000;
 for Operation and maintenance, and for debt payment, $623,700,000; in all
 $798,321,000: Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall
 remain available until September 30, 1994.
Family Housing, Air Force
 For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, including
 acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and alteration
 and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor
 construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as
 authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $200,071,000; for Operation
 and maintenance, and for debt payment, $741,808,000; in all $941,879,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1994.
Family Housing, Defense Agencies
 For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of
 the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for
 construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion,
 extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, leasing, and
 minor construction, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction,
 $600,000; for Operation and maintenance, $20,700,000; in all $21,300,000:
 Provided, That the amount provided for construction shall remain available
 until September 30, 1994.
Homeowners Assistance Fund, Defense
 For use in the Homeowners Assistance Fund established pursuant to section
 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of
 1966 (Public Law 89-754, as amended), $5,100,000, to remain available
 until expended.
Base Realignment and Closure Account
 For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established
 by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base
 Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526), $500,000,000, to remain
 available for obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided, That none of
 these funds may be obligated for base realignment and closure activities
 under Public Law 100-526 which would cause the Department's $2,400,000,000
 cost estimate for military construction and family housing related to the
 Base Realignment and Closure Program to be exceeded.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 SEC. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be expended
 for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for work, where cost
 estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed within the United States, except
 Alaska, without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense
 setting forth the reasons therefor.
 SEC. 102. Funds herein appropriated to the Department of Defense for
 construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
 SEC. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
 may be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department of
 Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized by section
 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized therein are
 certified as important to the national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
 SEC. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to begin
 construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which
 specific appropriations have not been made.
 SEC. 105. No part of the funds provided in this Act shall be used for
 purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 per centum of the value
 as determined by the Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering
 Command, except (a) where there is a determination of value by a Federal
 court, or (b) purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee,
 or (c) where the estimated value is less than $25,000, or (d) as otherwise
 determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
 SEC. 106. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be used to (1)
 acquire land, (2) provide for site preparation, or (3) install utilities for
 any family housing, except housing for which funds have been made available
 in annual military construction appropriation Acts.
 SEC. 107. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for minor construction
 may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one base or installation
 to another, without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
 SEC. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for
 the procurement of steel for any construction project or activity for which
 American steel producers, fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied
 the opportunity to compete for such steel procurement.
 SEC. 109. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act for dredging in
 the Indian Ocean may be used for the performance of the work by foreign
 contractors: Provided, That the low responsive and responsible bid of
 a United States contractor does not exceed the lowest responsive and
 responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 per centum.
 SEC. 110. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense for
 military construction or family housing during the current fiscal year may
 be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
 SEC. 111. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to initiate
 a new installation overseas without prior notification to the Committees
 on Appropriations.
 SEC. 112. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be obligated for
 architect and engineer contracts estimated by the Government to exceed
 $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan or in any NATO member
 country, unless such contracts are awarded to United States firms or United
 States firms in joint venture with host nation firms.
 SEC. 113. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for military construction
 in the United States territories and possessions in the Pacific and on
 Kwajalein Island may be used to award any contract estimated by the Government
 to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor: Provided, That this section
 shall not be applicable to contract awards for which the lowest responsive
 and responsible bid of a United States contractor exeeds the lowest responsive
 and responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 per centum.
 SEC. 114. The Secretary of Defense is to inform the Committees on
 Appropriations and the Committees on Armed Services of the plans and scope
 of any proposed military exercise involving United States personnel 30
 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either
 temporary or permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.
(transfer of funds)
 SEC. 115. Unexpended balances in the Military Family Housing Management
 Account established pursuant to section 2831 of title 10, United States Code,
 as well as any additional amounts which would otherwise be transferred to the
 Military Family Housing Management Account during fiscal year 1990, shall be
 transferred to the appropriations for Family Housing provided in this Act,
 as determined by the Secretary of Defense, based on the sources from which the
 funds were derived, and shall be available for the same purposes, and for the
 same time period, as the appropriation to which they have been transferred.
 SEC. 116. Not more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in this Act
 which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year shall be
 obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year.
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 117. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
 in prior years are hereby made available for construction authorized for
 each such military department by the authorizations enacted into law during
 the first session of the One Hundred First Congress.
 SEC. 118. The Secretary of Defense is to provide the Committees on
 Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives with a report
 by February 15, 1990, containing details of the specific actions proposed to
 be taken by the Department of Defense during fiscal year 1990 to encourage
 other member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Japan
 to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and
 the United States.
 SEC. 119. For military construction or family housing projects that are being
 completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for obligation, expired
 or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of associated supervision,
 inspection, overhead, engineering and design on those projects and on
 subsequent claims, if any.
 SEC. 120. None of the funds appropriated in this Act, except for North
 Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure funds, may be used for planning,
 design, or construction of military facilities or family housing to support
 the relocation of the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing from Spain to another
 country.
 SEC. 121. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds appropriated
 to a military department or defense agency for the construction of military
 projects may be obligated for a military construction project or contract,
 or for any portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the
 end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for
 such project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project (1)
 are obligated from funds available for military construction projects, and
 (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount
 by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.
 SEC. 122. Of the funds appropriated in this Act for Operations and maintenance
 of Family Housing, no more than $25,000,000 may be obligated for contract
 cleaning of family housing units.
 SEC. 123. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the
 design, construction, operation or maintenance of new family housing units
 in the Republic of Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied
 tours after June 6, 1988.
 SEC. 124. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for planning and design
 activities may be used to initiate design of the Pentagon Annex.
 SEC. 125. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1990 pay raises for
 programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the levels appropriated
 in this Act.
 SEC. 126. None of the funds appropriated in this Act, except those necessary
 to exercise construction management provisions under section 2807 of title
 10, United States Code, may be used for study, planning, design, or architect
 and engineer services related to the relocation of Yongsan Garrison, Korea.
 SEC. 127. (a) SALE OF LANDS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 and subject to subsections (b) through (h), the Secretary of the Navy
 (hereinafter the `Secretary') may sell the following real property together
 with improvements thereon:
 (1) Approximately 108 acres in Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii, known as the Manana
 Storage Area; and
 (2) Approximately 14 acres in Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii, known as Pearl
 City Junction.
 (b) Conditions of Sale-
 (1) MANANA STORAGE AREA- The State of Hawaii shall have the right to acquire
 and the Secretary shall have the authority to sell to the State of Hawaii
 this property by meeting the terms and conditions set forth in subsection (c).
 (2) PEARL CITY JUNCTION- The State of Hawaii shall have the first right to
 acquire and the Secretary shall have the authority to sell to the State
 of Hawaii this property by meeting the terms and conditions set forth in
 subsection (d). Should the State and the Secretary fail to consummate an
 agreement, the Secretary shall have authority to sell this property through
 competitive procedures.
 (3) Consideration for each sale shall not be less than the fair market
 value of the property, as determined by the Secretary.
 (4) Payment may be by cash or as specified in subsections (c) and (d),
 as determined by the Secretary.
 (c) Sale of Manana Storage Area-
 (1) As consideration for any transfer to the State of Hawaii of the Manana
 Storage Area, the Secretary shall receive--
 (A) at a site or sites to be determined by the Secretary, design and
 construction to reasonable specifications to the Secretary's satisfaction:
 (i) an openable causeway from mainside Pearl Harbor Naval Base to Ford
 Island; and (ii) replacement facilities for those Navy facilities presently
 on Manana Storage Area; and actually relocate on Oahu, to the satisfaction
 of the Secretary, the functions presently on Manana Storage Area; or
 (B) funds to allow the Secretary to perform the design, construction and
 relocation specified in subsection (c)(1)(A); or
 (C) any combination of the consideration enumerated in subsections (c)(1)(A)
 and (c)(1)(B) above that accomplishes the design, construction, and
 relocation, at the discretion of, and to the satisfaction of, the Secretary.
 (2) If the State of Hawaii constructs the causeway or replacement facilities
 or any portion thereof, upon the acceptance by the Secretary, the State
 shall transfer complete title to those facilities to the Secretary free of
 any liens or encumbrances.
 (d) SALE OF PEARL CITY JUNCTION- As consideration for the sale of Pearl
 City Junction, the Navy shall receive either funds, or actual design and
 construction of facilities plus relocation, or a combination thereof, as
 determined by the Secretary, to accommodate consolidation and relocation
 of the functions on the sale property to other Navy and Marine Corps
 property. This may include--
 (1) relocation and consolidation of functions at Manana Storage Area and
 Pearl City Junction to common replacement facilities; and
 (2) relocation of Marine Corps functions that would be displaced by such
 consolidation to replacement facilities to be designed and constructed at
 Marine Corps Air Station, Kaneohe Bay.
 (e) Use of Funds-
 (1) The Secretary may use the funds derived from any sale of land under
 this section to accomplish any of the purposes described in subsections
 (c) and (d) including any related expenses.
 (2) Funds received from the sales of lands under this section may be placed
 in an interest bearing account by the Secretary until expended and the accrued
 interest therefrom may be used in the same manner as the sale proceeds.
 (3) Any funds which are unexpended after all the actions described in
 subsections (c) and (d) have been accomplished, shall be available for design
 and construction of additional support facilities for Naval Supply Center,
 Pearl Harbor.
 (f) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS OF LANDS- The exact acreages and legal descriptions
 of the properties to be transferred to the State of Hawaii or sold under
 this section shall be in accordance with surveys that are satisfactory to
 the Secretary.
 (g) NOTIFICATION- The Secretary may not enter into any contract under this
 section to--
 (1) convey title to real property;
 (2) provide for design or construction of a causeway to Ford Island,
 replacement facilities or other support facilities; and
 (3) provide for relocation of functions from the properties to be sold until--
 (A) the Secretary has transmitted to the appropriate Committees of Congress
 a report of the details of the proposed transaction; and
 (B) a period of twenty-one days has expired from the date such report has
 been received by the Committees.
 (h) ADDITIONAL TERMS- The Secretary may require such additional terms and
 conditions in agreements entered into under this section as the Secretary
 considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.