 
--H.R.5149--
H.R.5149
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to provide that the Secretary of
Agriculture may not consider, in allocating amounts to a State agency under
the special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children for
the fiscal year 1991, any amounts returned by such agency for reallocation
during the fiscal year 1990 and to allow amounts allocated to a State for
such program for the fiscal year 1991 to be expended for expenses incurred
in the fiscal year 1990.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT TO THE CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966.
 Section 17(i) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(i)) is
 amended at the end thereof by adding new subparagraphs (3) (E), (F) and
 (G) which read:
 `(E) Notwithstanding any other provision in this paragraph and paragraph (2) a
 State agency may, subject to the approval of the Secretary under subparagraph
 (F), expend not more than 3 percent of the amount of funds allocated to such
 agency for supplemental foods for the fiscal year 1991 for expenses incurred
 under this section for supplemental foods during the fiscal year 1990.
 `(F) Each State agency which intends to use the authority provided in
 subparagraph (E) shall request approval from the Secretary in advance and
 shall submit a plan showing how the State's caseload will be managed to meet
 funding limitations. The Secretary shall review and make determinations on
 such plans on an expedited basis.
 `(G) No State can use the authority provided under subparagraph (E) to
 increase the caseload level above the highest level to date in fiscal
 year 1990.'
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.