 
--H.R.4323--
H.R.4323
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act relating to water quality
in the
Great Lakes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Great Lakes Critical Programs Act
 of 1990'.
TITLE I--GREAT LAKES
GREAT LAKES ACTION SCHEDULES
 SEC. 101. Section 118 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
 U.S.C. 1268) is amended by inserting immediately after subsection (c)(1)
 the following new paragraphs, and by renumbering the existing paragraphs
 accordingly:
 `(2) GREAT LAKES WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE-
 `(A) By June 30, 1991, the Administrator, after consultation with the Program
 Office, shall publish in the Federal Register for public notice and comment
 proposed water quality guidance for the Great Lakes System. Such guidance
 shall conform with the objectives and provisions of the Great Lakes Water
 Quality Agreement, shall be no less restrictive than the provisions of this
 Act and national water quality criteria and guidance, shall specify numerical
 limits on pollutants in ambient Great Lakes waters to protect human health,
 aquatic life, and wildlife, and shall provide guidance to the Great Lakes
 States on minimum water quality standards, antidegradation policies, and
 implementation procedures for the Great Lakes System.
 `(B) By June 30, 1992, the Administrator, in consultation with the Program
 Office, shall publish in the Federal Register, pursuant to this section
 and the Administrator's authority under this chapter, final water quality
 guidance for the Great Lakes System.
 `(C) Within two years after such Great Lakes guidance is published, the Great
 Lakes States shall adopt water quality standards, antidegradation policies,
 and implementation procedures for waters within the Great Lakes System which
 are consistent with such guidance. If a Great Lakes State fails to adopt such
 standards, policies, and procedures, the Administrator shall promulgate them
 not later than the end of such two-year period. When reviewing any Great
 Lakes State's water quality plan, the agency shall consider the extent to
 which the State has complied with the Great Lakes guidance issued pursuant
 to this section.
 `(3) REMEDIAL ACTION PLANS-
 `(A) For each area of concern for which the United States has agreed to
 draft a Remedial Action Plan, the Program Office shall ensure that the
 Great Lakes State in which such area of concern is located--
 `(i) submits a Remedial Action Plan to the Program Office by June 30, 1991;
 `(ii) submits such Remedial Action Plan to the International Joint Commission
 by January 1, 1992; and
 `(iii) includes such Remedial Action Plans within the State's water quality
 plan by January 1, 1993.
 `(B) For each area of concern for which Canada has agreed to draft a Remedial
 Action Plan, the Program Office shall, pursuant to subparagraph (c)(1)(C)
 of this section, work with Canada to assure the submission of such Remedial
 Action Plans to the International Joint Commission by June 30, 1991, and
 to finalize such Remedial Action Plans by January 1, 1993.
 `(C) For any area of concern designated as such subsequent to the enactment
 of this Act, the Program Office shall (i) if the United States has agreed
 to draft the Remedial Action Plan, ensure that the Great Lakes State in
 which such area of concern is located submits such Plan to the Program
 Office within two years of the area's designation, submits it to the
 International Joint Commission no later than six months after submitting it
 to the Program Office, and includes such Plan in the State's water quality
 plan no later than one year after submitting it to the Commission; and (ii)
 if Canada has agreed to draft the Remedial Action Plan, work with Canada,
 pursuant to subparagraph (c)(1)(C) of this section, to ensure the submission
 of such Plan to the International Joint Commission within two years of the
 area's designation and the finalization of such Plan no later than eighteen
 months after submitting it to such Commission.
 `(D) The Program Office shall compile formal comments on individual
 Remedial Action Plans made by the International Joint Commission pursuant
 to section 4(d) of Annex 2 of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement and,
 upon request by a member of the public, shall make such comments available
 for inspection and copying. The Program Office shall also make available,
 upon request, formal comments made by the Environmental Protection Agency
 on individual Remedial Action Plans.
 `(4) LAKEWIDE MANAGEMENT PLANS- The Administrator, in consultation with
 the Program Office shall--
 `(A) by January 1, 1992, publish in the Federal Register a proposed Lakewide
 Management Plan for Lake Michigan and solicit public comments;
 `(B) by January 1, 1993, submit a proposed Lakewide Management Plan for
 Lake Michigan to the International Joint Commission for review; and
 `(C) by January 1, 1994, publish in the Federal Register a final Lakewide
 Management Plan for Lake Michigan and begin implementation.
Nothing in this subparagraph shall preclude the simultaneous development of
Lakewide Management Plans for the other Great Lakes.
 `(5) SPILLS OF OIL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS- The Program Office, in
 consultation with the Coast Guard, shall identify areas within the Great
 Lakes which are likely to experience numerous or voluminous spills of oil
 or other hazardous materials from land based facilities, vessels, or other
 sources and, in consultation with the Great Lakes States, shall identify
 weaknesses in Federal and State programs and systems to prevent and respond
 to such spills. This information shall be included on at least a biennial
 basis in the report required by this section.'.
CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS
 SEC. 102. Section 118(c)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
 (33 U.S.C. 1268(c)(3)), as renumbered by section 101 of this title, is
 amended by--
 (1) inserting `(A)' following the title; and
 (2) by adding the following new subsections:
 `(B) The Program Office shall--
 `(i) by December 31, 1990, complete chemical, physical, and biological
 assessments of the contaminated sediments at the locations selected for
 the study and demonstration projects;
 `(ii) by December 31, 1990, announce the technologies that will be
 demonstrated at each location and the numerical standard of protection
 intended to be achieved at each location;
 `(iii) by December 31, 1992, complete full or pilot scale demonstration
 projects on site at each location of promising technologies to remedy
 contaminated sediments; and
 `(iv) by December 31, 1993, issue a final report to Congress on its findings.
 `(C) The Administrator, after providing for public review and comment,
 shall publish information concerning the public health and environmental
 consequences of contaminants in Great Lakes sediment. Information published
 pursuant to this subparagraph shall include specific numerical limits
 to protect health, aquatic life, and wildlife from the bioaccumulation of
 toxins. The Administrator shall, at a minimum, publish information pursuant to
 this subparagraph within 2 years of the date of the enactment of this title.'.
DEFINITIONS
 SEC. 103. Section 118(a)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
 (33 U.S.C. 1268(a)(3)) is amended by deleting `and' at the end of clause
 (D), by deleting the period at the end of clause (E), and inserting in lieu
 thereof a semicolon; and by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(F) `area of concern' means a geographic area located within the Great
 Lakes, in which beneficial uses are impaired and which has been officially
 designated as such under Annex 2 of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement;
 `(G) `Great Lakes States' means the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan,
 Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin;
 `(H) `Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement' means the bilateral agreement,
 between the United States and Canada which was signed in 1978 and amended
 by the Protocol of 1987;
 `(I) `Lakewide Management Plan' means a written document which embodies a
 systematic and comprehensive ecosystem approach to restoring and protecting
 the beneficial uses of the open waters of each of the Great Lakes, in
 accordance with article VI and Annex 2 of the Great Lakes Water Quality
 Agreement; and
 `(J) `Remedial Action Plan' means a written document which embodies a
 systematic and comprehensive ecosystem approach to restoring and protecting
 the beneficial uses of areas of concern, in accordance with article VI and
 Annex 2 of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.'.
GREAT LAKES CONFINED DISPOSAL FACILITIES
 SEC. 104. At the end of section 118(c) of the Federal Water Pollution
 Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1268(c)) add the following new paragraph:
 `(11) CONFINED DISPOSAL FACILITIES- (A) The Administrator, in consultation
 with the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, shall develop
 and implement, within one year of the date of enactment of this paragraph,
 management plans for every Great Lakes confined disposal facility.
 `(B) The plan shall provide for monitoring of such facilities, including--
 `(i) water quality at the site and in the area of the site;
 `(ii) sediment quality at the site and in the area of the site;
 `(iii) the diversity, productivity, and stability of aquatic organisms at
 the site and in the area of the site; and
 `(iv) such other conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.
 `(C) The plan shall identify the anticipated use and management of the site
 over the following twenty-year period including the expected termination
 of dumping at the site, the anticipated need for site management, including
 pollution control, following the termination of the use of the site.
 `(D) The plan shall identify a schedule for review and revision of the plan
 which shall not be less frequent than five years after adoption of the plan
 and every five years thereafter.'.
GREAT LAKES NATIONAL PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION
 SEC. 105. (a) AUTHORIZATION- Section 118(h) of the Federal Water Pollution
 Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1268(h)) is amended by deleting `1990, and 1991' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `and 1990, and $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1991'.
 (b) ALLOCATION- Section 118(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
 (33 U.S.C. 1268(h)) is amended by adding after `30 percent' the following:
 `or $3,300,000, whichever is the lesser,'.
HEALTH RESEARCH REPORT
 SEC. 106. Subsection 118(e) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act is
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph--
 `(3) HEALTH RESEARCH REPORT- (A) Not later than September 30, 1994, the
 Program Office, in consultation with the Research Office, the Agency for
 Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, and Great Lakes States shall submit
 to the Congress a report assessing the adverse effects of water pollutants
 in the Great Lakes System on the health of persons in Great Lakes States and
 the health of fish, shellfish, and wildlife in the Great Lakes System. In
 conducting research in support of this report, the Administrator may,
 where appropriate, provide for research to be conducted under cooperative
 agreements with Great Lakes States.
 `(B) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry
 out this section not to exceed $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992,
 1993, and 1994.'.
TITLE II--LONG ISLAND SOUND
SHORT TITLE
 SEC. 201. This part may be cited as the `Long Island Sound Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
AMENDMENT TO THE FEDERAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ACT
 SEC. 202. Title I of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
 `SEC. 119. LONG ISLAND SOUND- (a) The Administrator shall continue the
 Management Conference of the Long Island Sound Study (hereinafter referred
 to as the `Conference') as established pursuant to section 320 of this Act,
 and shall establish an office (hereinafter referred to as the `Office')
 to be located on or near Long Island Sound.
 `(b) ADMINISTRATION AND STAFFING OF OFFICE- The Office shall be headed by a
 Director, who shall be detailed by the Administrator, following consultation
 with the Administrators of EPA regions I and II, from among the employees
 of the Agency who are in civil service. The Administrator shall delegate
 to the Director such authority and detail such additional staff as may be
 necessary to carry out the duties of the Director under this section.
 `(c) DUTIES OF THE OFFICE- The Office shall assist the Management Conference
 of the Long Island Sound Study in carrying out its goals. Specifically,
 the Office shall--
 `(1) assist and support the implementation of the Comprehensive Conservation
 and Management Plan for Long Island Sound developed pursuant to section
 320 of this Act;
 `(2) conduct or commission studies deemed necessary for strengthened
 implementation of the Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan
 including, but not limited to--
 `(A) population growth and the adequacy of wastewater treatment facilities,
 `(B) the use of biological methods for nutrient removal in sewage treatment
 plants,
 `(C) contaminated sediments, and dredging activities,
 `(D) nonpoint source pollution abatement and land use activities in the
 Long Island Sound watershed,
 `(E) wetland protection and restoration,
 `(F) atmospheric deposition of acidic and other pollutants into Long
 Island Sound,
 `(G) water quality requirements to sustain fish, shellfish, and wildlife
 populations, and the use of indicator species to assess environmental quality,
 `(H) State water quality programs, for their adequacy pursuant to
 implementation of the Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan, and
 `(I) options for long-term financing of wastewater treatment projects and
 water pollution control programs.
 `(3) coordinate the grant, research and planning programs authorized under
 this section;
 `(4) coordinate activities and implementation responsibilities with other
 Federal agencies which have jurisdiction over Long Island Sound and with
 national and regional marine monitoring and research programs established
 pursuant to the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act;
 `(5) provide administrative and technical support to the conference;
 `(6) collect and make available to the public publications, and other forms
 of information the conference determines to be appropriate, relating to
 the environmental quality of Long Island Sound;
 `(7) not more than two years after the date of the issuance of the final
 Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan for Long Island Sound under
 section 320 of this Act, and biennially thereafter, issue a report to the
 Congress which--
 `(A) summarizes the progress made by the States in implementing the
 Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan;
 `(B) summarizes any modifications to the Comprehensive Conservation and
 Management Plan in the twelve-month period immediately preceding such
 report; and
 `(C) incorporates specific recommendations concerning the implementation
 of the Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan; and
 `(8) convene conferences and meetings for legislators from State governments
 and political subdivisions thereof for the purpose of making recommendations
 for coordinating legislative efforts to facilitate the environmental
 restoration of Long Island Sound and the implementation of the Comprehensive
 Conservation and Management Plan.
 `(d) GRANTS- (1) The Administrator is authorized to make grants for
 projects and studies which will help implement the Long Island Sound
 Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan. Special emphasis shall be
 given to implementation, research and planning, enforcement, and citizen
 involvement and education.
 `(2) State, interstate, and regional water pollution control agencies, and
 other public or nonprofit private agencies, institutions, and organizations
 held to be eligible for grants pursuant to this subsection.
 `(3) Citizen involvement and citizen education grants under this subsection
 shall not exceed 95 per centum of the costs of such work. All other grants
 under this subsection shall not exceed 50 per centum of the research,
 studies, or work. All grants shall be made on the condition that the
 non-Federal share of such costs are provided from non-Federal sources.
 `(e) AUTHORIZATIONS- (1) There is authorized to be appropriated to the
 Administrator for the implementation of this section, other than subsection
 (d), such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1991
 through 1996.
 `(2) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator for the
 implementation of subsection (d) not to exceed $3,000,000 for each of the
 fiscal years 1991 through 1996.'.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS
 SEC. 203. Amend subsection 116(g) of the Marine Protection Research and
 Sanctuaries Act (33 U.S.C. 1416(g)) by striking all after `shall comply with'
 and inserting in lieu thereof the following `the requirements of this title.'.
TITLE III--LAKE CHAMPLAIN
SHORT TITLE
 SEC. 301. This title may be cited as the `Lake Champlain Special Designation
 Act of 1990'.
DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM
 SEC. 302. Paragraph (2) of section 314(d) of the Federal Water Pollution
 Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1324(d)) is amended by inserting `Lake Champlain,
 New York and Vermont;' before `Lake Houston, Texas'.
lake champlain management conference
 SEC. 303. Title I of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section--
`Lake Champlain Management Conference
  `SEC. 120. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a Lake Champlain
  Management Conference to develop a comprehensive pollution prevention,
  control, and restoration plan for Lake Champlain. The Administrator
  shall convene the management conference within ninety days of the date of
  enactment of this section.
 `(b) MEMBERSHIP- The Members of the Management Conference shall be comprised
 of--
 `(1) the Governors of the States of Vermont and New York;
 `(2) each interested Federal agency, not to exceed a total of five members;
 `(3) the Vermont and New York Chairpersons of the Vermont, New York,
 Quebec Citizens Advisory Committee for the Environmental Management of
 Lake Champlain;
 `(4) four representatives of the State legislature of Vermont;
 `(5) four representatives of the State legislature of New York;
 `(6) six persons representing local governments having jurisdiction over
 any land or water within the Lake Champlain basin, as determined appropriate
 by the Governors; and
 `(7) eight persons representing affected industries, nongovernmental
 organizations, public and private educational institutions, and the general
 public, as determined appropriate by the trigovernmental Citizens Advisory
 Committee for the Environmental Management of Lake Champlain, but not to
 be current members of the Citizens Advisory Committee.
 `(c) TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE- (1) The Management Conference shall,
 not later than one hundred and twenty days after the date of enactment of
 this section, appoint a Technical Advisory Committee.
 `(2) Such Technical Advisory Committee shall consist of officials of:
 appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government; the State
 governments of New York and Vermont; and governments of political subdivisions
 of such States; and public and private research institutions.
 `(d) RESEARCH PROGRAM- (1) The Management Conference shall establish a
 multi-disciplinary environmental research program for Lake Champlain. Such
 research program shall be planned and conducted jointly with the Lake
 Champlain Research Consortium.
 `(e) POLLUTION PREVENTION, CONTROL, AND RESTORATION PLAN- (1) Not later than
 three years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Management
 Conference shall publish a pollution prevention, control, and restoration
 plan (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Plan') for Lake Champlain.
 `(2) The Plan developed pursuant to this section shall--
 `(A) identify corrective actions and compliance schedules addressing point
 and nonpoint sources of pollution necessary to restore and maintain the
 chemical, physical, and biological integrity of water quality, a balanced,
 indigenous population of shellfish, fish and wildlife, recreational, and
 economic activities in and on the lake;
 `(B) incorporate environmental management concepts and programs established in
 State and Federal plans and programs in effect at the time of the development
 of such plan;
 `(C) clarify the duties of Federal and State agencies in pollution
 prevention and control activities, and to the extent allowable by law,
 suggest a timetable for adoption by the appropriate Federal and State
 agencies to accomplish such duties within a reasonable period of time;
 `(D) describe the methods and schedules for funding of programs, activities,
 and projects identified in the Plan, including the use of Federal funds
 and other sources of funds; and
 `(E) include a strategy for pollution prevention and control that includes
 the promotion of pollution prevention and management practices to reduce
 the amount of pollution generated in the Lake Champlain basin.
 `(3) The Administrator, in cooperation with the Management Conference, shall
 provide for public review and comment on the draft Plan. At a minimum, the
 Management Conference shall conduct one public meeting to hear comments on
 the draft plan in the State of New York and one such meeting in the State
 of Vermont.
 `(4) Not less than one hundred and twenty days after the publication of the
 Plan required pursuant to this section, the Administrator shall approve such
 plan if the plan meets the requirements of this section and the Governors
 of the States of New York and Vermont concur.
 `(5) Upon approval of the plan, such plan shall be deemed to be an approved
 management program for the purposes of section 319(h) of this Act and
 such plan shall be deemed to be an approved comprehensive conservation and
 management plan pursuant to section 320 of this Act.
 `(f) GRANT ASSISTANCE- (1) The Administrator may, in consultation with the
 Management Conference, make grants to State, interstate, and regional water
 pollution control agencies, and public or nonprofit agencies, institutions,
 and organizations.
 `(2) Grants under this subsection shall be made for assisting research,
 surveys, studies, and modeling and technical and supporting work necessary
 for the development of the Plan and for retaining expert consultants in
 support of litigation undertaken by the State of New York and the State
 of Vermont to compel cleanup or obtain cleanup damage costs from persons
 responsible for pollution of Lake Champlain.
 `(3) The amount of grants to any person under this subsection for a fiscal
 year shall not exceed 75 per centum of the costs of such research, survey,
 study and work and shall be made available on the condition that non-Federal
 share of such costs are provided from non-Federal sources.
 `(4) The Administrator may establish such requirements for the administration
 of grants as he determines to be appropriate.
 `(g) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this section, the term `Lake Champlain
 drainage basin' means all or part of Clinton, Franklin, Warren, Essex, and
 Washington counties in the State of New York and all or part of Franklin,
 Grand Isle, Chittenden, Addison, Rutland, Lamoille, Orange, Washington,
 Orleans, and Caledonia counties in Vermont, that contain all of the streams,
 rivers, lakes, and other bodies of water, including wetlands, that drain
 into Lake Champlain.
 `(h) STATUTORY INTERPRETATION- Nothing in this section shall be construed
 so as to affect the jurisdiction or powers of--
 `(1) any department or agency of the Federal Government or any State
 government; or
 `(2) any international organization or entity related to Lake Champlain
 created by treaty or memorandum to which the United States is a signatory.
 `(i) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
 Environmental Protection Agency to carry out this section $2,000,000 for
 each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995.'.
FEDERAL PROGRAM COORDINATION
 SEC. 304. (a) Designation of Lake Champlain as a Special Project Area Under
 the Agricultural Conservation Program-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Lake Champlain
 basin, as defined under section 120(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
 Act, shall be designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as a special project
 area under the Agricultural Conservation Program established under section
 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)).
 (2) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REIMBURSEMENT- To carry out the purposes of this
 subsection, the technical assistance reimbursement from the Agricultural
 Stabilization and Conservation Service authorized under the Soil Conservation
 and Domestic Allotment Act, shall be increased from 5 per centum to 10
 per centum.
 (3) COMPREHENSIVE AGRICULTURAL MONITORING- The Secretary, in consultation
 with the Management Conference and appropriate State and Federal agencies,
 shall develop a comprehensive agricultural monitoring and evaluation network
 for all major drainages within the Lake Champlain basin.
 (4) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- In allocating funds under this subsection, the
 Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the Management Conference
 established under section 120 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
 and to the extent allowable by law, allocate funds to those agricultural
 enterprises located at sites that the Management Conference determines to
 be priority sites, on the basis of a concern for ensuring implementation
 of nonpoint source pollution controls throughout the Lake Champlain basin.
 (b) COOPERATION OF THE UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
 THE INTERIOR- For the purpose of enhancing and expanding basic data collection
 and monitoring in operation in the Lake Champlain basin, as defined under
 section 120 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Secretary of the
 Interior, acting through the heads of water resources divisions of the New
 York and New England districts of the United States Geological Survey, shall--
 (1) in cooperation with appropriate universities and private research
 institutions, and the appropriate officials of the appropriate departments
 and agencies of the States of New York and Vermont, develop an integrated
 geographic information system of the Lake Champlain basin;
 (2) convert all partial recording sites in the Lake Champlain basin to
 continuous monitoring stations with full gauging capabilities and status; and
 (3) establish such additional continuous monitoring station sites in the
 Lake Champlain basin as are necessary to carry out basic data collection
 and monitoring, as defined by the Secretary of the Interior, including
 groundwater mapping, and water quality and sediment data collection.
 (c) Cooperation of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service of the
 Department of the Interior-
 (1) RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROGRAM- The Secretary of the Interior, acting
 through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in cooperation with the
 Lake Champlain Fish and Wildlife Management Cooperative and the Management
 Conference established pursuant to this subsection shall--
 (A) establish and implement a fisheries resources restoration, development
 and conservation program, including dedicating a level of hatchery production
 within the Lake Champlain basin at or above the level that existed immediately
 preceding the date of enactment of this Act; and
 (B) conduct a wildlife species and habitat assessment survey in the Lake
 Champlain basin, including--
 (i) a survey of Federal threatened and endangered species, listed or proposed
 for listing under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.),
 New York State and State of Vermont threatened and endangered species and
 other species of special concern, migratory nongame species of management
 concern, and national resources plan species;
 (ii) a survey of wildlife habitats such as islands, wetlands, and riparian
 areas; and
 (iii) a survey of migratory bird populations breeding, migrating and
 wintering within the Lake Champlain basin.
 (2) To accomplish the purposes of paragraph (1), the Director of the United
 States Fish and Wildlife Service is authorized to carry out activities
 related to--
 (A) controlling sea lampreys and other nonindigenous aquatic animal nuisances;
 (B) improving the health of fishery resources;
 (C) conducting investigations about and assessing the status of fishery
 resources, and disseminating that information to all interested parties; and
 (D) conducting and periodically updating a survey of the fishery resources
 and their habitats and food chains in the Lake Champlain basin.
 (d) AUTHORIZATIONS- (1) There is authorized to be appropriated to the
 Department of Agriculture $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992,
 1993, 1994, and 1995 to carry out subsection (a) of this section.
 (2) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Interior
 $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995 to
 carry out subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
TITLE IV--ONONDAGA LAKE
 SEC. 401. ONONDAGA LAKE. (a) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for
 Civil Works, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,
 and the Governor of the State of New York, acting jointly, shall convene
 a management conference for the restoration, conservation, and management
 of Onondaga Lake. The purpose of this management conference shall include
 but not be limited to--
 (1) the development, within a two-year period following the date of the
 enactment of this Act, of a comprehensive restoration, conservation,
 and management plan for Onondaga Lake that recommends priority corrective
 actions and compliance schedules for the cleanup of such Lake; and
 (2) the coordination  of the implementation of such plan by the State of
 New York, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Environmental
 Protection Agency and all local agencies, governments, and other groups
 participating in such management conference.
 (b)(1) The members of the management conference convened pursuant to
 subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the Assistant Secretary of the
 Army for Civil Works, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
 Agency, the Governor of the State of New York, and representatives of--
 (A) the Attorney General of the State of New York;
 (B) Onondaga County, New York; and
 (C) The city of Syracuse, New York.
 (2) Any member of the management conference may designate a representative
 to attend meetings of the management conference and otherwise represent
 such member on the management conference.
 (3) The management conference shall have ex officio members which shall
 include, at a minimum--
 (A) the United States Senators from the State of New York; and
 (B) the Member(s) of the United States House of Representatives within
 whose congressional district(s) lies Onondaga Lake.
 (4) The management conference shall have standing committees which shall
 include, at a minimum--
 (A) a Citizens Advisory Committee; and
 (B) a Technical Review Committee.
 (c)(1) Not later than one hundred and twenty days after the completion
 of the plan developed pursuant to subsection (a), and after providing for
 public review and comment, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil
 Works and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall
 approve such plan if such plan meets the requirements of this section,
 and if the Governor of the State of New York concurs in such approval.
 (2) Upon approval of the plan under this subsection, such plan shall be
 implemented.
 (d)(1) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works and the
 Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency are authorized to
 make grants to the State of New York to perform activities authorized
 under this section or to contract for such performance, provided that such
 grants shall not exceed 70 per centum of the costs of such activities and
 that the non-Federal share of such costs are provided from non-Federal
 sources. Administrative services for the development and implementation
 of the plan approved pursuant to subsection (a) shall be provided by a
 not-for-profit corporation established for the purpose of assisting with
 the planning and coordination of the cleanup of Onondaga Lake.
 (2) To carry out this section, the Governor of the State of New York may,
 using funds provided pursuant to paragraph (1), make grants for--
 (A) research, surveys, administrative services and studies approved by the
 management conference as necessary for the development of the plan under
 this section;
 (B) other activities including administrative services that are approved by
 the management conference and are necessary to implement the plan approved
 by the management conference pursuant to subsection (a); and
 (C) gathering data and retaining expert consultants in support of litigation
 undertaken by the State of New York to compel cleanup or obtain cleanup and
 damage costs from parties responsible for the pollution of Onondaga Lake,
 including administrative services.
 (3) In-kind payments shall qualify for the purpose of meeting the total
 non-Federal matching requirements of this subsection.
 (e) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Assistant Secretary
 of the Army for Civil Works and the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
 (f) Grants made under this section are not intended to relieve any person
 who would otherwise be liable under Federal or State law for damages,
 response costs, natural resource damages, restitution, equitable relief or
 any other relief, from liability for such relief.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.