 
--H.R.5113--
H.R.5113
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend the program for the
prevention and control of injuries.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the  United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Injury Control Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. REVISION AND EXTENSION OF PROGRAM FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF
INJURIES.
 (a) RESEARCH- Section 391(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 280b(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting after `grants to' the following: `,
 or enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with,'; and
 (2)(A) in paragraph (1), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with,
 academic institutions for the purpose of providing training on the causes,
 mechanisms, prevention, diagnosis, treatment of injuries, and rehabilitation
 from injuries.'.
 (b) CONTROL ACTIVITIES- Section 392(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act
 (42  U.S.C. 280b-1(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) work in cooperation with other Federal agencies, and with public and
 nonprofit private entities, to promote injury control.'.
 (c) REQUIREMENT OF REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF AGENCY- Section 393 of the Public
 Health Service Act (42  U.S.C. 280b-2) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 393. REPORT.
 `By not later than September 30, 1992, the Secretary, through the Director of
 the Centers for Disease Control, shall prepare and submit to the Committee on
 Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on
 Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report describing the activities
 conducted or supported under this part. The report shall include--
 `(1) information regarding the practical applications of research conducted
 pursuant to subsection (a) of section 391, including information that has
 not been disseminated under subsection (b) of such section; and
 `(2) information on such activities regarding the prevention and control
 of injuries in rural areas, including information regarding injuries that
 are particular to rural areas.'.
 (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 394 of the Public Health
 Service Act (42  U.S.C. 280b-3) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by inserting before the period the following:
 `, $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary for
 each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993';
 (2) by striking the subsection designation; and
 (3) by striking the second sentence.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.