 
--H.R.1011--
H.R.1011
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the establishment of the National Commission on Wildfire
Disasters, to provide for increased planning and cooperation with local
firefighting forces in the event of forest fires, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Wildfire Disaster Recovery Act
 of 1989'.
TITLE I--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON WILDFIRE DISASTERS
SEC. 101. FINDINGS AND POLICY.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) the natural fire disasters that occurred in 1987 and 1988 in Western
 and Southeastern States burned nearly seven and one-half million acres of
 Federal, State, and private land;
 (2) these fires have altered the ability of Federal Government agencies
 to effectively manage the lands for timber production, fish and wildlife
 habitation, watershed, and recreation for future use by the American
 public; and
 (3) the communities in and surrounding the areas affected by the fires have
 suffered economic and social losses.
 (b) POLICY- It is hereby declared to be the policy of Congress to respond to
 these disasters and prepare for potential disasters by reviewing the effect
 of these disasters on natural resources and on the financial and cultural
 aspects of the affected communities and by adopting such policies as are
 needed to assist in an effective and efficient recovery of those communities.
SEC. 102. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON WILDFIRE DISASTERS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established a National Commission on
 Wildfire Disasters (hereafter referred to as the `Commission') which shall
 study the effects of disastrous wildfires, resulting from natural or other
 causes, and make recommendations concerning the steps necessary for a smooth
 and timely transition from the loss of natural resources due to such fires.
 (b) COMPOSITION- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 25 members. Thirteen
 members shall be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture with at least
 one from each of the following groups: the timber industry, nonindustrial
 private forest landowners, State or local officials, employees of the
 Department of Agriculture, scientists from the academic community, wildlife
 biologists, members of private nonprofit forestry organizations, members of
 environmental organizations, and community leaders. Twelve members shall be
 appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, with at least one from each of
 the following groups: State or local officials, employees of the Department
 of the Interior, scientists from the academic community, wildlife biologists,
 members of environmental organizations, members of private nonprofit national
 park organizations, conservationists, community leaders, and fire ecologists.
 (2) The two Secretaries shall each appoint no more than three members
 from any one State and shall each appoint at least five members from areas
 affected by wildfires since 1986.
 (3) In making appointments under this subsection, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall consider nominations submitted by the following Members of Congress:
 (A) The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the House of
 Representatives.
 (B) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture of the
 House of Representatives.
 (C) The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
 of the Senate.
 (D) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
 and Forestry of the Senate.
 (4) In making appointments under this subsection, the Secretary of the
 Interior shall consider nominations submitted by the following Members
 of Congress:
 (A) The chairman of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 House of Representatives.
 (B) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the House of Representatives.
 (C) The chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the Senate.
 (D) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the Senate.
 (c) VACANCY- A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by appointment in
 the manner provided in subsection (b) by the Secretary making the initial
 appointment.
 (d) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among the
 members of the Commission by a majority vote.
 (e) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson or
 a majority of the members of the Commission.
SEC. 103. DUTIES.
 (a) STUDY- The National Commission on Wildfire Disasters shall study the
 effects of fires on--
 (1) the current and future economy of affected communities;
 (2) the availability of sufficient timber supplies to meet future industry
 needs;
 (3) fish and wildlife habitats;
 (4) recreation in the affected areas;
 (5) watershed and water quality protection plans in effect within National
 Forest System lands;
 (6) ecosystems in the areas;
 (7) management plans of the affected National Forest System lands;
 (8) national parks;
 (9) Bureau of Land Management public lands;
 (10) wilderness; and
 (11) biodiversity of the affected areas.
 (b) FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS- On the basis of its study, the Commission
 shall make findings and develop recommendations for consideration by the
 Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior with respect to the future
 management of National Forest System lands, national parks, Bureau of Land
 Management public lands, and community redevelopment activities and programs.
 (c) REPORT- The Commission shall submit to the Secretaries of Agriculture
 and the Interior, not later than December 1, 1991, a report containing
 its findings and recommendations. The Secretaries of Agriculture and the
 Interior shall forthwith submit the report to the Committee on Agriculture
 of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and
 Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 of the Senate, and the report is authorized to be printed as a House Document.
SEC. 104. OPERATION IN GENERAL.
 (a) AGENCY COOPERATION- The head of executive agencies, the General Accounting
 Office, the Office of Technology Assessment, and the Congressional Budget
 Office shall provide the Commission such information as may be required to
 carry out its duties and functions.
 (b) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
 for work on the Commission. While away from their homes or regular places
 of business in the performance of duties of the Commission, members of the
 Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of
 subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the
 Government service under section 5703 of title 5 of the United States Code.
 (c) EMPLOYEES- (1) To the extent there are sufficient funds available to the
 Commission and subject to such rules as may be adopted by the Commission,
 the Commission, without regard to the provisions of title 5 of the United
 States Code governing appointments in the competitive service and, except
 as provided in paragraph (2), without regard to the provisions of chapter 51
 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to the classification
 and General Schedule pay rates, may--
 (A) appoint and fix the compensation of a director; and
 (B) appoint and fix the compensation of such additional personnel as the
 Commission determines necessary to assist it to carry out its duties and
 functions.
 (2) No employee of the Commission shall be compensated at a pay rate greater
 than the rate received by an employee at the grade of GS-16 as described
 in section 5104(16) of title 5 of the United States Code.
 (d) STAFF AND SERVICES- On the request of the Commission, the heads
 of executive agencies, the Comptroller General, and the Director of the
 Office of Technology Assessment may furnish the Commission with such office,
 personnel or support services as the head of the agency, or office, and the
 chairperson of the Commission agree are necessary to assist the Commission
 to carry out its duties and functions. The Commission shall not be required
 to pay, or reimburse, any agency for office, personnel or support services
 provided under this subsection.
 (e) EXEMPTIONS- (1) The Commission shall be exempt from sections 7(d),
 10(f), and 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
 (2) The Commission shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 4301
 through 4305 of title 5 of the United States Code.
SEC. 105. FUNDING.
 (a) ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS- Following the appointment of the members of
 the National Commission on Wildfire Disasters, notwithstanding the provisions
 of section 1342 of title 31 of the United States Code, the Secretary of
 Agriculture may receive on behalf of the Commission, from persons, groups,
 and entities within the United States, contributions of money and services
 to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties and functions. Any money
 contributed under this section shall be made available to the Commission
 to carry out this Act.
 (b) LIMITATION ON CONTRIBUTION- The Secretary of Agriculture shall promulgate
 regulations to assure that the aggregate amount of contributions from any
 one person, group, or entity shall not exceed 10 percent of the total amount
 of funds that will be contributed to the Commission.
 (c) RECORDS- The Secretary of Agriculture shall keep, and shall make
 available for public inspection during normal business hours, records that
 fully disclose a complete list of every person, group, and entity making a
 contribution under this section, the address of the contributor, the amount
 and type of each such contributor, and the date the contribution was made.
 (d) EXCESS FUNDS- Any amount of money available to the Commission under
 this section that remains unobligated upon termination of the Commission
 shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
SEC. 106. TERMINATION.
 The National Commission on Wildfire Disasters shall cease to exist 90 days
 following the submission of its report to the Secretaries of Agriculture
 and the Interior.
TITLE II--FOREST FIREFIGHTING PLANNING AND COOPERATION
SEC. 201. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) it is in the best interest of the Nation to take swift action to
 rehabilitate burned forests, and an assessment of the situation is necessary
 to accomplish this; and
 (2) volunteers should be trained to assist where possible.
SEC. 202. REPORT ON REHABILITATION NEEDS.
 Not later than six months after the date of enactment of this Act and
 annually thereafter, detailed reports by--
 (1) the Secretary of Agriculture on the rehabilitation needs of each Forest
 Service Region, and
 (2) the Secretary of the Interior on the rehabilitation needs of the
 Bureau of Land Management public lands on a State-by-State basis and of
 each National Park Region,
resulting from disastrous forest fire damage during the previous year shall
be submitted to Congress. Each such report shall specify the needs with
respect to reforestation, vegetation management, timber stand improvement,
fish and wildlife habitat restoration, soil conservation, recreation, and
wilderness resources.
SEC. 203. PLANNING FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
 (a) VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS- The Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior
 shall annually offer training programs to certify volunteers for suppressing
 forest fires on National Forest System lands, National Park System lands
 and Bureau of Land Management public lands in the event that the appropriate
 Secretary determines that such volunteers are needed. In carrying out this
 subsection, the Secretaries should utilize existing authorities to train
 volunteer firefighters for use in fire emergencies. The Secretaries should
 assess the capabilities of educational institutions and other public and
 private organizations to provide such training programs.
 (b) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this section, the term `educational
 institutions' shall include institutions established pursuant to the Act of
 July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C. 301 et seq., commonly known as the `Morrill Act'),
 or the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 et seq., commonly known as the
 `Second Morrill Act').
 (c) MOBILIZATION OF LOCAL EQUIPMENT- Not later than one year after the date
 of enactment of this Act--
 (1) the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the Congress information
 with respect to regions of the National Forest System, and
 (2) the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Congress information
 with respect to the Bureau of Land Management public lands on a State-by-State
 basis and each region of the National Park System
that documents mobilization plans that provide for the use of firefighting
equipment in cases of fire emergencies that may occur in each such area that
may be highly prone to disastrous forest fires.
 (d) PRESUPPRESSION NEEDS- Not later than one year after the date of enactment
 of this Act, information from the Secretary of Agriculture on presuppression
 needs for each region of the National Forest System and information from
 the Secretary of the Interior on the presuppression needs for each region
 of the National Park System and for each State unit of the Bureau of Land
 Management shall be submitted to Congress. These reports shall include
 needs, including an estimate of the funds required, for fire prevention,
 fuel reduction, training and seasonal fire crews.
SEC. 204. VOLUNTEER COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES AND DAMAGES.
 (a) NATIONAL FORESTS- Section 3 of the Volunteers in the National Forests Act
 of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558c) is amended by adding the following new subsection:
 `(d) For the purpose of claims relating to damage to, or loss of, personal
 property of a volunteer incident to volunteer service, a volunteer under
 this Act shall be considered a Federal employee, and the provisions of 31
 U.S.C. 3721 shall apply.'.
 (b) NATIONAL PARKS- Section 3 of the Volunteers in the Parks Act of 1969
 (16 U.S.C. 18i) is amended by adding the following new subsection:
 `(d) For the purpose of claims relating to damage to, or loss of, personal
 property of a volunteer incident to volunteer service, a volunteer under
 this Act shall be considered a Federal employee, and the provisions of 31
 U.S.C. 3721 shall apply.'.
 (c) BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT- Section 307(f) of the Federal Land Policy
 and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(f)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(f) Volunteers shall not be deemed employees of the United States except
 for the purposes of--
 `(1) the tort claims provisions of title 28;
 `(2) subchapter 1 of chapter 81 of title 5; and
 `(3) claims relating to damage to, or loss of, personal property of a
 volunteer incident to volunteer service, in which case the provisions of
 31 U.S.C. 3721 shall apply.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.