 
--H.R.2119--
H.R.2119
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize the exchange of certain Federal public land in Madison County,
Illinois.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL PUBLIC LAND.
 (a) EXCHANGE OF LAND- Subject to section 2, at such time as the Blue
 Tee Corporation conveys all right, title, and interest in and to the
 land described in subsection (b)(1) to the United States of America, the
 Secretary of the Army (hereinafter `Secretary') shall convey all right,
 title, and interest in and to the land described in subsection (b)(2)
 to the Blue Tee Corporation.
 (b) DESCRIPTION OF LANDS- The lands referred to in subsection (a) are
 the following:
 (1) NON-FEDERAL LAND- 35.03 acres of land located in Madison County, Illinois,
 known as Government Tract Number 121 and owned by the Blue Tee Corporation.
 (2) FEDERAL LAND- 58.64 acres situated in Madison County, Illinois, known
 as Government Tract Number 122 and administered by the United States Army
 Corp of Engineers, which is constructing the Melvin Price Lock and Dam
 Project on this land.
SEC. 2. CONDITIONS OF EXCHANGE.
 The exchange of land authorized by section 1 shall be subject to the
 following conditions:
 (1) Deeds-
 (A) FEDERAL LAND- The instrument of conveyance used to convey the land
 described in section 1(b)(2) to the Blue Tee Corporation shall contain such
 reservations, terms, and conditions as the Secretary of the Army considers
 necessary to allow the United States to construct, operate, and maintain
 the Melvin Price Lock on that land.
 (B) NON-FEDERAL LAND- The conveyance of the land described in section 1(b)(1)
 to the Secretary of the Army shall be by a warranty deed acceptable to
 the Secretary.
 (2) REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS- The Blue Tee Corporation may remove any
 improvements on the land described in section 1(b)(1). Furthermore, the
 Secretary, at his discretion, may require the Blue Tee Corporation to remove
 any improvements on the land described in section 1(b)(1). In either case,
 the Blue Tee Corporation shall hold the United States harmless from liability,
 and the United States shall not incur any cost associated with the removal
 or relocation of such improvements.
 (3) TIME LIMIT FOR EXCHANGE- The land exchange authorized by section 1(a)
 must be completed within 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (4) LEGAL DESCRIPTION- The Secretary shall provide the legal description
 of the lands described in section 1(b). That legal description shall be
 used in the instruments of conveyance of such lands.
SEC. 3. VALUE OF PROPERTIES.
 If the appraised fair market value, as determined by the Secretary, of the
 land conveyed to the Blue Tee Corporation by the Secretary under section 1(a)
 exceeds the appraised fair market value, as determined by the Secretary,
 of the land conveyed to the United States by the Blue Tee Corporation
 under section 1(a), the Blue Tee Corporation shall pay the difference to
 the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.