 
--H.R.1159--
H.R.1159
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the National Trails System Act by designating the Juan Bautista de
Anza National Historic Trail, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic
 Trail Act'.
SEC. 2. JUAN BAUTISTA DE ANZA NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.
 (a) DESIGNATION- Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16
 U.S.C. 1244(a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(17) The Juan Bautista de Anza National Historic Trail, a trail comprising
 the overland route traveled by Captain Juan Bautista de Anza of Spain
 during the years 1775 and 1776 from Sonora, Mexico, to the vicinity of
 San Francisco, California, of approximately 1,200 miles through Arizona
 and California, as generally described in the report of the Department of
 the Interior prepared pursuant to subsection (b) entitled `Juan Bautista de
 Anza National Trail Study, Feasibility Study and Environmental Assessment'
 and dated August 1986. A map generally depicting the trail shall be on file
 and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the
 National Park Service, Washington, District of Columbia. The trail shall be
 administered by the Secretary of the Interior. No lands or interests therein
 outside the exterior boundaries of any federally administered area may be
 acquired by the Federal Government for the Juan Bautista de Anza National
 Historic Trail without the consent of the owner thereof. In implementing
 this paragraph, the Secretary shall encourage volunteer trail groups to
 participate in the development and maintenance of the trail.'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 10(c)(2) of the National Trails
 System Act (16 U.S.C. 1249(c)) is amended by striking the first sentence and
 inserting: `Except as otherwise provided in this Act, there is authorized
 to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to implement the provisions
 of this Act relating to the trails designated by section 5(a).'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.