 
--H.R.972--
H.R.972
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend section 3724 of title 31, United States Code, to increase the
authority of the Attorney General to settle claims for damages resulting
from law enforcement activities of the Department of Justice.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO SETTLE CLAIMS.
 (a) INCREASED AUTHORITY- Section 3724 of title 31, United States Code,
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking out `$500' and inserting in lieu thereof `$50,000'; and
 (B) by striking out `the Director' and all that follows through
 `Investigation' and inserting in lieu thereof `an investigative or law
 enforcement officer as defined in section 2680(h) of title 28 who is employed
 by the Department of Justice'; and
 (2) in subsection (b) by striking out `The Attorney General' in the first
 sentence and all that follows through `The' in the second sentence and
 inserting in lieu thereof the following: `The Attorney General shall report
 annually to the Congress on all settlements made under this section. With
 respect to each such settlement, the'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) The section heading for section 3724 of title 31, United States Code,
 is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 3724. Claims for damages caused by investigative or law enforcement
officers of the Department of Justice'.
 (2) The item relating to section 3724 in the table of sections at the
 beginning of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
`3724. Claims for damages caused by investigative or law enforcement officers
of the Department of Justice.'.
SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by section 1 shall apply to--
 (1) any claim arising on or after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 (2) any claim pending on such date, and
 (3) any claim arising before such date which has not been settled if the
 time for presenting the claim to the Attorney General under the last sentence
 of section 3724(a) of title 31, United States Code, has not expired.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.