 
--H.R.4559--
H.R.4559
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area
 Establishment Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act, the term--
 (a) `conservation area' means the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation
 Area established pursuant to section 3 of this Act;
 (b) `public lands' has the meaning stated in section 103(e) of the Federal
 Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702(e)); and
 (c) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSERVATION AREA.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) In order to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit
 and enjoyment of present and future generations the area in southern Nevada
 containing and surrounding the Red Rock Canyon and the unique and nationally
 important geologic, archeological, ecological, cultural, scenic, scientific,
 wildlife, riparian, wilderness, endangered species, and recreation resources
 of the public lands therein contained, there is established the Red Rock
 Canyon National Conservation Area.
 (2) The conservation area shall consist of approximately 83,100 acres of
 generally depicted on a map entitled `Red Rock Canyon National Conservation
 Area--Proposed' numbered NV-RRC-NCA-001, and dated June, 1990.
 (3) The map referred to in paragraph (2) shall be on file and available
 for inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management,
 Department of the Interior.
 (b) LEGAL DESCRIPTION- (1) As soon as practicable after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall file a legal description of the conservation
 area established by subsection (a) with the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and
 Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives, and such
 legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included in
 this Act, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographic
 errors in legal description.
 (2) The legal description described in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
 available for public inspection in the office of the Director of the Bureau
 of Land Management, Department of the Interior.
 (c) DISCREPANCIES- In case of any discrepancy between or among the map
 described in subsection (a), the amount of acreage stated in subsection (a),
 or the legal description filed by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b),
 the map described in subsection (a) shall control any question concerning
 the boundaries of the conservation area.
SEC. 4. MANAGEMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau
 of Land Management, shall, subject to valid existing rights, manage the
 conservation area to conserve, protect, and enhance the resources described
 in section 3 in accordance with this Act, the Federal Land Policy and
 Management Act of 1976, and other applicable laws. The Secretary shall
 only allow such uses of the conservation area as he finds will further the
 purposes for which the conservation area is established.
 (b) HUNTING- (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall permit
 hunting within the conservation area in accordance with the laws of the
 State of Nevada.
 (2) The Secretary, after consultation with the Nevada Department of Wildlife,
 may issue regulations designating zones where and establishing when hunting
 shall not be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, or
 public use and enjoyment.
 (c) PREVENTIVE MEASURES- Nothing in this Act shall preclude such measures
 as the Secretary deems necessary to prevent devastating fire or infestation
 of insects or disease within the conservation area.
 (d) MECHANIZED VEHICLES- Except when needed for administrative or emergency
 purposes, the use of mechanized vehicles in the conservation area shall be
 allowed only on roads and trails specifically designated for such use as
 provided in the management plan prepared pursuant to section 5.
 (e) LIMITS ON VISITATION AND USE- The Secretary may limit visitation and
 use of the conservation area as the Secretary finds appropriate for the
 protection of the resources of the conservation area.
SEC. 5. MANAGEMENT PLAN.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Within 3 full fiscal years following the fiscal year
 in which the date of enactment of this Act occurs, the Secretary shall
 develop and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular  Affairs
 of the United States House of Representatives, a general management plan
 for the conservation area, which shall describe the appropriate uses and
 development of the conservation area consistent with the purposes of this Act.
 (2) The management plan described in paragraph (1) shall be developed with
 full public participation and shall include--
 (A) an implementation plan for a continuing program of interpretation and
 public education about the resources and values of the conservation area;
 (B) a proposal for administrative and public facilities to be developed,
 expanded, or improved for the conservation area including the Red Rock
 Canyon visitors center, to accommodate visitors to the conservation area;
 (C) a cultural resources management plan for the conservation area prepared
 in consultation with the Nevada State Historic Preservation Officer, with
 emphasis on the preservation of the resources in the conservation area
 and the interpretive, educational, and long-term scientific uses of these
 resources, giving priority to the enforcement of the Archaeological Resources
 Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic
 Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the conservation area;
 (D) a wildlife resource management plan for the conservation area prepared
 in consultation with appropriate departments of the State of Nevada and
 using previous studies of the area; and
 (E) a recreation management plan, including nonmotorized dispersed recreation
 opportunities for the conservation area in consultation with appropriate
 departments of the State of Nevada.
 (b) WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS- Subject to section 7 of this Act, nothing in
 this Act is intended to alter the requirements of section 603 of the Federal
 Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), or section 5(a)
 of the National Forest and Public Lands of Nevada Enhancement Act of 1988
 (102 Stat. 2751), as those requirements apply to the lands within, or
 adjacent to the conservation area as of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. ACQUISITIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Within the conservation area, and subject to the
 provisions of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands,
 interests in lands, and associated water rights, by donation, purchase
 with donated or appropriated funds, exchange for Federal lands outside
 the conservation area, or transfer from another Federal agency with the
 concurrence of the head of the appropriate agency thereof.
 (2) Lands or interests therein owned by the State of Nevada or a political
 subdivision thereof may be acquired by donation or exchange only.
 (3) No privately owned lands, interests in lands, or associated water
 rights, may be acquired without the consent of the owner thereof unless
 the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property is subject to,
 or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an adverse impact
 on the resource values for which the conservation area was established.
 (4) Any lands, waters, or interests therein within the boundaries of the
 conservation area which after the date of enactment of this Act may be
 acquired by the United States shall be incorporated into the conservation
 area and be managed accordingly, and all provisions of this Act and other
 laws applicable to conservation areas shall apply to such incorporated lands.
 (b) LAND EXCHANGES- All exchanges pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made
 in a manner consistent with section 206 of the Federal Land Management and
 Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
SEC. 7. WITHDRAWAL.
 Except as specifically authorized in this Act, and subject to valid
 existing rights, all Federal lands within the conservation area and all
 lands and interests therein which are acquired by the United States after
 the date of enactment of this Act for inclusion in the conservation area
 are withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the
 public land laws, from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws,
 and from operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws,
 and all amendments thereto.
SEC. 8. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 In order to encourage unified and cost-effective management and interpretation
 of natural and cultural resources in the conservation area, the Secretary
 is authorized and encouraged to enter into cooperative agreements with
 other Federal, State, and local agencies and nonprofit entities providing
 for the management and interpretation of natural and cultural resources in
 the conservation area.
SEC. 9. COORDINATED MANAGEMENT.
 The Secretary shall coordinate the management of the conservation area
 with that of surrounding State and Federal lands in such a manner as best
 to meet the present and future needs of the American people.
SEC. 10. WATER.
 (a) Within the conservation area designated by this Act, there is hereby
 reserved a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill the purposes for which
 the conservation area is established.
 (b) The priority date of the water rights reserved in paragraph (a) shall
 be the date of enactment of this Act.
 (c) The Secretary shall take all steps necessary to protect the water rights
 reserved by this section, including the filing of a claim for quantification
 of such rights in any appropriate water adjudication in the courts of the
 State of Nevada in which the United States is or may be joined and which
 is conducted in accordance with the McCarren Amendment (43 U.S.C. 666).
 (d) The Federal water rights reserved by this Act shall be in addition
 to any water rights which may have been previously secured by the United
 States for purposes other than for the conservation area.
 (e) The Federal water rights reserved by this Act are specific to the
 conservation area designated by this Act. Nothing in this Act shall be
 construed as establishing a precedent with regard to any future designations,
 nor shall it constitute an interpretation of any other Act or any designation.
SEC. 11. NO BUFFER ZONES.
 The Congress does not intend for the establishment of the conservation area
 to lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around
 the conservation area. The fact that there may be activities or uses on
 lands outside the conservation area that would not be permitted in the
 conservation area shall not preclude such activities or uses on such lands
 up to the boundary of the conservation area to the extent consistent with
 other applicable law.
SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry
 out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.