 
--H.R.94--
H.R.94
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to allow for the
development and issuance of guidelines concerning the use and installation
of automatic sprinkler systems and smoke detectors in places of public
accommodation affecting commerce, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) more than 400 Americans have lost their lives in multistory hotel fires
 over the last 5 years;
 (2) when properly installed and maintained, automatic sprinklers and smoke
 detectors provide the most effective safeguards against the loss of life
 and property from fire;
 (3) automatic sprinklers and smoke detectors should supplement and not
 supplant other fire protection measures, including existing requirements
 for fire resistive walls and fire retardant furnishings;
 (4) some State and local governments and the hotel industry need to act
 more rapidly to require the installation and use of automatic sprinkler
 systems in hotels; and
 (5) through the United States Fire Administration and the Center for Fire
 Research, the Federal Government has helped to develop and promote the use of
 residential sprinkler systems and other means of fire prevention and control.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to save lives and protect property
 by promoting fire and life safety in hotels, motels, and all places of
 public accommodation affecting commerce.
SEC. 3. HOTEL AND MOTEL FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974
 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new sections:
`LISTINGS OF CERTIFIED PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION
 `SEC. 28. (a) SUBMISSIONS BY STATES- (1) Not later than 2 years after
 the date of enactment of this section, each State shall, under procedures
 formulated by the Director, submit to the Director a list of those places
 of public accommodation affecting commerce located in the State which the
 Governor of the State or his designee certifies meet the requirements of
 the guidelines described in section 29.
 `(2) The Director shall formulate procedures under which each State shall
 periodically update the list submitted pursuant to paragraph (1).
 `(b) COMPILATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF MASTER LIST- (1) Not later than 60 days
 after the expiration of the 2-year period referred to in subsection (a),
 the Director shall compile and publish in the Federal Register a national
 master list of all of the places of public accommodation affecting commerce
 located in each State that meet the requirements of the guidelines described
 in section 29, and shall distribute such list to each agency of the Federal
 Government and take steps to make the employees of such agencies aware of
 its existence and contents.
 `(2) The Director shall periodically update the national master list compiled
 pursuant to paragraph (1) to reflect changes in the State lists submitted to
 the Director pursuant to subsection (a), and shall periodically redistribute
 the updated master list to each agency of the Federal Government.
 `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `agency' has the meaning
 given to it under section 5701(1) of title 5, United States Code.
`FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL GUIDELINES FOR PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION
 `SEC. 29. (a) CONTENTS OF GUIDELINES- The guidelines referred to in sections
 28 and 30 consist of--
 `(1) a requirement that hard-wired, single-station smoke detectors be
 installed in accordance with National Fire Protection Association Standard
 74 in each guest room in each place of public accommodation affecting
 commerce; and
 `(2) a requirement that an automatic sprinkler system be installed in
 accordance with National Fire Protection Association Standard 13 or 13-R,
 whichever is appropriate, in each place of public accommodation affecting
 commerce except those places that are 3 stories or lower.
 `(b) EFFECT ON STATE AND LOCAL LAW- The provisions of this section shall
 not be construed to limit the power of any State or political subdivision
 thereof to implement or enforce any law, rule, regulation, or standard
 concerning fire prevention and control.
 `(c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section, the following definitions
 shall apply:
 `(1) The term `smoke detector' means an alarm that is designed to respond
 to the presence of visible or invisible particles of combustion.
 `(2) The term `automatic sprinkler system' means an electronically supervised,
 integrated system of piping to which sprinklers are attached in a systematic
 pattern, and which, when activated by heat from a fire, will protect human
 lives by discharging water over the fire area, and by providing appropriate
 warning signals (to the extent such signals are required by Federal, State,
 or local laws or regulations) through the building's fire alarm system.
`DISSEMINATION OF FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL INFORMATION
 `SEC. 30. The Director, acting through the Administrator, is authorized
 to take steps to encourage the States to promote the use of automatic
 sprinkler systems and automatic smoke detection systems, and to disseminate
 to the maximum extent possible information on the life safety value and
 use of such systems. Such steps may include, but need not be limited to,
 providing copies of the guidelines described in section 29 and of the
 master list compiled under section 28(b) to Federal agencies, State and
 local governments, and fire services throughout the United States, and
 making copies of the master list compiled under section 28(b) available
 upon request to interested private organizations and individuals.'.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- (1) Section 4 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control
 Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2203) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (4) and
 (5) as paragraphs (5) and (6), respectively, by redesignating paragraphs
 (6) and (7) as paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively, and by inserting
 immediately after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
 `(4) `Director' means the Director of the Federal Emergency Management
 Agency;'.
 (2) Section 4 of such Act (as amended by paragraph (1)) is further amended by
 inserting immediately after paragraph (6), as so redesignated, the following
 new paragraph:
 `(7) `place of public accommodation affecting commerce' means any inn, hotel,
 or other establishment not owned by the Federal Government that provides
 lodging to transient guests, except that such term does not include an
 establishment treated as an apartment building for purposes of any State
 or local law or regulation or an establishment located within a building
 that contains not more than 5 rooms for rent or hire and that is actually
 occupied as a residence by the proprietor of such establishment;'.
SEC. 4. ADHERENCE TO FIRE SAFETY GUIDELINES IN ESTABLISHING RATES AND
DISCOUNTS FOR LODGING EXPENSES.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO TITLE 5- Subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United
 States Code, is amended by inserting immediately after section 5707 the
 following new section:
`Sec. 5707a. Adherence to fire safety guidelines in establishing rates and
discounts for lodging expenses
 `(a) Studies or surveys conducted for the purposes of establishing per diem
 rates for lodging expenses under this chapter shall be limited to places of
 public accommodation that meet the requirements of the fire prevention and
 control guidelines described in section 29 of the Federal Fire Prevention
 and Control Act of 1974. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
 with respect to studies and surveys that are conducted in any jurisdiction
 that is not a State as defined in section 4 of the Federal Fire Prevention
 and Control Act of 1974.
 `(b) The Administrator of General Services may not include in any directory
 which lists lodging accommodations any hotel, motel, or other place of public
 accommodation that does not meet the requirements of the fire prevention and
 control guidelines described in section 29 of the Federal Fire Prevention
 and Control Act of 1974.
 `(c) The Administrator of General Services shall include in each directory
 which lists lodging accommodations a description of the access and safety
 devices, including appropriate emergency alerting devices, which each listed
 place of public accommodation provides for guests who are hearing-impaired
 or visually or physically handicapped.
 `(d) The Administrator of General Services may take any additional actions
 the Administrator determines  appropriate to encourage employees traveling
 on official business to stay at places of public accommodation that meet
 the requirements of the fire prevention and control guidelines described
 in section 29 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
 57 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting immediately
 after the item relating to section 5707 the following new item:
`5707a. Adherence to fire safety guidelines in establishing rates and
discounts for lodging expenses.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 60 days after the date of the publication in the Federal Register of the
 master list of certified places of public accommodation maintained by the
 Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to section
 28(b) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (as added by
 section 3 of this Act).
SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT OF APPROVED ACCOMMODATIONS PERCENTAGE FOR FEDERAL
AGENCIES.
 (a) APPROVED ACCOMMODATIONS PERCENTAGE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 5707 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) Each agency shall ensure that its approved accommodations percentage
 for a fiscal year shall be not less than--
 `(A) 65 percent, for the first fiscal year that begins 4 years after the
 date of enactment of this subsection;
 `(B) 75 percent, for the fiscal year that begins 5 years after the date of
 enactment of this subsection; and
 `(C) 90 percent, for the fiscal year that begins 6 years after the date of
 enactment of this subsection and for each subsequent fiscal year.
 `(2) In this subsection, an agency's `approved accommodations percentage'
 for a fiscal year is the percentage determined by multiplying 100 by the
 quotient of--
 `(A) the total number of nights spent by civilian employees of the agency
 (as described in section 5702(a)) for which payment was made under this
 chapter for lodging expenses incurred in any State at any approved hotel,
 motel, or other place of public accommodation not owned by the Federal
 Government; divided by
 `(B) the total number of nights spent by such employees for which payment
 was made under this chapter for lodging expenses incurred in any State at
 any hotel, motel, or other place of public accommodation not owned by the
 Federal Government.
 `(3) For purposes of this subsection, a hotel, motel, or other place of
 public accommodation is approved if it meets the requirements of the fire
 prevention and control guidelines described in section 29 of the Federal
 Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974.
 `(4) For purposes of this subsection--
 `(A) the term `agency' does not include the government of the District of
 Columbia; and
 `(B) the term `State' means any State, the District of Columbia, the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
 Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands,
 the Canal Zone, Guam, American Samoa, or any other territory or possession.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 5701 of such title is amended in the
 matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking `For the purpose' and inserting
 `Except as otherwise provided in section 5707(d), for the purpose'.
 (b) GAO AUDIT OF AGENCY COMPLIANCE- Not later than 6 months after the last
 day of the first fiscal year during which lodging expenses are subject to
 the requirements of section 5707(d) of title 5, United States Code, as added
 by subsection (a), and not later than 6 months after the last day of every
 fiscal year thereafter, the Comptroller General shall conduct an audit of the
 compliance of agencies with the requirements of section 5707(d) of title 5,
 United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), and shall submit a report
 to Congress describing the results of such audit.
SEC. 6. PROHIBITING FEDERAL FUNDING OF CONFERENCES HELD AT NON-CERTIFIED
PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- No Federal funds may be used to sponsor or fund in whole
 or in part a meeting, convention, conference, or training seminar that is
 conducted in, or that otherwise uses the rooms, facilities, or services
 of, a place of public accommodation that does not meet the requirements of
 the fire prevention and control guidelines described in section 29 of the
 Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (as added by section 3(a)
 of this Act).
 (b) WAIVER-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The head of an agency of the Federal Government sponsoring
 or funding a particular meeting, convention, conference, or training seminar
 may waive the prohibition described in subsection (a) if the head of such
 agency determines that a waiver of such prohibition is necessary in the
 public interest in the case of such particular event.
 (2) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY- The head of an agency of the Federal Government
 may delegate the authority provided under paragraph (1) to waive the
 prohibition described in subsection (a) and to determine whether such a
 waiver is necessary in the public interest to an officer or employee of the
 agency if such officer or employee is given such authority with respect to
 all meetings, conventions, conferences, and training seminars sponsored or
 funded by the agency.
 (c) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS-
 (1) ADVERTISEMENTS AND APPLICATIONS- (A) Any advertisement for or application
 for attendance at a meeting, convention, conference, or training seminar
 sponsored or funded in whole or in part by the Federal Government shall
 include a notice regarding the prohibition described in subsection (a).
 (B) The requirement described in subparagraph (A) shall not apply in the
 case of an event for which a head of an agency of the Federal Government,
 pursuant to subsection (b), waives the prohibition described in subsection
 (a).
 (2) PROVIDING NOTICE TO RECIPIENTS OF FUNDS- (A) Each Executive department,
 Government corporation, and independent establishment providing Federal
 funds to non-Federal entities shall notify recipients of such funds of the
 prohibition described in subsection (a).
 (B) In subparagraph (A), the terms `Executive department', `Government
 corporation', and `independent establishment' have the meanings given such
 terms in chapter 1 of title 5, United States Code.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The provisions of this section shall take effect on the
 first day of the first fiscal year that begins after the expiration of the
 425-day period that begins on the date of the publication in the Federal
 Register of the master list referred to in section 28(b) of the Federal
 Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (as added by section 3 of this Act).
SEC. 7. WAIVER OF FEDERAL LIABILITY.
 In any action for damages resulting from a fire at a place of public
 accommodation, the Federal Government may not be found liable for the death
 of or injury to any person or damage to any property because an officer
 or employee of the Federal Government was negligent in carrying out any
 requirement under this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
SEC. 8. EFFECT ON CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.
 Nothing in this Act shall be construed to encourage model building code
 organizations, or State or local governments, to reduce requirements for
 fire resistive walls or other safety features.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.