 
--H.R.2642--
H.R.2642
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
Granting the consent of the Congress to amendments to the Southeast Interstate
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Compact.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Southeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive
 Waste Compact Amendments Consent Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. CONSENT OF CONGRESS TO AMENDMENTS TO COMPACT.
 Congress consents to the amendments to the Southeast Interstate Low-Level
 Radioactive Waste Management Compact made by party states to such
 Compact. Such amendments are substantially as follows:
 At the end of article 5 add the following new section:
 `E. No party state shall be required to operate a regional facility for
 longer than a 20-year period, or to dispose of more than 32,000,000 cubic
 feet of low-level radioactive waste, whichever first occurs.'.
 Article 7 is amended by striking out sections G and H and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following:
 `G. Subject to the provisions of Article 7 Section H., any party state
 may withdraw from the compact by enacting a law repealing the compact,
 provided that if a regional facility is located within such state, such
 regional facility shall remain available to the region for four years after
 the date the Commission receives verification in writing from the Governor
 of such party state of the rescission of the Compact. The Commission, upon
 receipt of the verification, shall as soon as practicable provide copies
 of such verification to the Governor, the Presidents of the Senates, and
 the Speakers of the Houses of Representatives of the party states as well
 as the chairmen of the appropriate committees of the Congress.
 `H. The right of a party state to withdraw pursuant to section G. shall
 terminate thirty days following the commencement of operation of the second
 host state disposal facility. Thereafter a party state may withdraw only
 with the unanimous approval of the Commission and with the consent of
 Congress. For purposes of this section, the low-level radioactive waste
 disposal facility located in Barnwell County, South Carolina shall be
 considered the first host state disposal facility.
 `I. This compact may be terminated only by the affirmative action of the
 Congress or by rescission of all laws enacting the compact in each party
 state.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.