 
--H.R.5433--
H.R.5433
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to release on behalf of the United
States a condition in a deed conveying certain lands to the Conservation
Commission of West Virginia, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. RELEASE OF CONDITION.
 (a) RELEASE- Notwithstanding section 32(c) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm
 Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(c)), the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized
 and directed to release the condition that the lands to be exchanged by the
 State of West Virginia, as specified in subsection (b), be used for public
 purposes if the State agrees to attach the same condition to other State
 lands specified in subsection (c).
 (b) LANDS DESCRIBED; RELEASE OF CONDITION- The Secretary shall release the
 condition referred to in subsection (a) only with respect to that portion
 of the lands conveyed by the deed dated April 22, 1954, to the Conservation
 Commission of West Virginia (recorded in Webster County, West Virginia Deed
 Book 118, page 4) that is to be exchanged by the State of West Virginia for
 lands from the Sun Lumber Company for addition to Holy River State Park. The
 lands to be conveyed by the State are more particularly described in documents
 on file with the Chief of the Forest Service entitled `Description of 410.0
 Acre Tract Being a Part of Tract Number 218'; `Description of 16.0 Acres';
 and `Description of 208.4 Acres'.
 (c) ATTACHMENT OF CONDITION- The State land to which the condition is to be
 attached under subsection (a) is the tract of land in Webster County, West
 Virginia more particularly described in documents on file with the Chief
 of the Forest Service entitled `Description of 18.7 Acres'; `Description of
 43.2 Acres'; `Description of 133.3 Acres'; and `Description of 401.4 Acres'.
SEC. 2. VENTANA LAND EXCHANGE.
 (a) MAP- The map entitled `New Los Padres Reservoir Expansion Project--Forest
 and Wilderness Boundary Adjustment--Los Padres National Forest' dated
 September 1989 (hereafter in this section referred to as the `map') shall
 describe the lands for which exchanges and other actions are authorized by
 this section. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection
 in the office of the Chief, Forest Service, Washington, District of Columbia.
 (b) BOUNDARIES- Upon completion of the exchange, the boundaries of the
 Ventana Wilderness and Los Padres National Forest are hereby modified as
 necessary to accommodate the land exchange authorized by this section.
 (c) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary
 of Agriculture is authorized and directed to offer for exchange to the
 California-American Water Company the lands comprising Parcel A and to
 receive, in exchange for Parcel A, all right, title and interest in Parcel
 B, as generally depicted on the map. The title to Parcel B shall be in the
 California-American Water Company and the title conveyed in the exchange
 shall be by general warranty deed and shall be otherwise acceptable to
 the Secretary of Agriculture. Such exchange is deemed to be an equal
 value exchange. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary from
 exchanging Parcel A to the California-American Water Company in exchange
 for other lands utilizing existing exchange authorities in the event that
 the California-American Water Company does not acquire title to Parcel B.
 (d) MANAGEMENT- Upon acquisition by the United States, Parcel B shall be
 thereafter managed as National Forest Wilderness and shall be withdrawn
 from all forms of location and entry under the mining and mineral leasing
 laws and from the geothermal leasing laws.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.