 
--H.R.3611--
H.R.3611
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To combat international narcotics production and trafficking.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `International Narcotics
 Control Act of 1989'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Andean drug initiative.
Sec. 3. Military and law enforcement assistance for Bolivia, Colombia,
and Peru.
Sec. 4. Acquisition by Special Defense Acquisition Fund of defense articles
for narcotics control purposes.
Sec. 5. Excess defense articles for certain major illicit drug producing
countries.
Sec. 6. Waiver of Brooke-Alexander amendment for major coca producing
countries.
Sec. 7. Mexico.
Sec. 8. Nonapplicability of certification procedures to certain major
drug-transit countries.
Sec. 9. Coordination of United States trade policy and narcotics control
objectives.
Sec. 10. Debt-for-drugs exchanges.
Sec. 11. Multilateral antinarcotics strike force.
Sec. 12. Weapons transfers to international narcotics traffickers.
Sec. 13. Rewards for information concerning acts of international terrorism.
Sec. 14. Waiver of Bumpers Amendment.
Sec. 15. Participation in foreign police actions.
Sec. 16. Authorization of appropriations for international narcotics control
assistance.
Sec. 17. Revisions of certain narcotics-related provisions of the Foreign
Assistance Act.
SEC. 2. ANDEAN DRUG INITIATIVE.
 (a) FINDINGS RELATING TO ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE NEEDS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) it is crucial to international antidrug efforts that funds be made
 available for crop substitution programs and alternative employment
 opportunities to provide alternative sources of income for those individuals
 in major coca producing countries who are dependent on illicit drug production
 activities, as well as for eradication, enforcement, rehabilitation and
 treatment, and education programs in those countries; and
 (2) the United States and other major donor countries (including European
 countries and Japan) should provide increased economic assistance, on
 an urgent basis, to those major coca producing countries which have taken
 concrete steps to attack illicit coca production, processing, and trafficking,
 by eradication, interdiction, or other methods which significantly reduce
 the flow of cocaine to the world market.
 (b) PLAN TO ADDRESS NEED FOR ASSISTANCE- The Congress, therefore, urges
 the Director of National Drug Control Policy to submit to the Congress in
 February 1990, as part of the National Drug Control Strategy report required
 by section 1005 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1504), a plan
 which addresses the need outlined in subsection (a).
 (c) ANDEAN SUMMIT- The Congress urges the President in the strongest possible
 terms to include the following issues on the formal agenda of the meeting
 between the President and the heads of government of Bolivia, Colombia,
 and Peru, scheduled for early February 1990:
 (1) Bilateral and multilateral antidrug efforts that make funds available
 for crop substitution programs and alternative employment opportunities in
 major coca producing countries, as well as for eradication, enforcement,
 rehabilitation and treatment, and education programs in those countries.
 (2) Initiatives to improve and expand antidrug efforts in the Andean region,
 including through the use of United States international economic, commercial,
 and other policies.
 (3) Prior bilateral discussions aimed at increasing multilateral economic
 development assistance from Japan, Canada, and Western European countries
 for antidrug efforts in the Andean region.
 (4) Debt-for-drugs exchanges that forgive Andean bilateral debt held by
 the United States and other creditor countries in return for commitments by
 Andean governments to use the savings in debt service for antidrug programs,
 pursuant to agreements negotiated under section 481(h)(2)(B) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(h)(2)(B)) and other international
 agreements and initiatives.
 (5) Bilateral and multilateral efforts to halt the transfer of arms, precursor
 chemicals, and sophisticated communications equipment and technology from
 legitimate sources to drug trafficking organizations.
 (d) REPORT ON ANDEAN SUMMIT MEETING- Not later than 30 days after the
 conclusion of the Andean summit meeting described in subsection (c), the
 President shall report to the Congress on the outcome of that meeting.
 (e) SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET REQUESTS- At the same time as he submits the report
 required by subsection (d), the President shall submit to the Congress
 such supplemental budget requests for fiscal years 1990 and 1991 as may
 be necessary to cover the United States share of the cost of additional
 economic assistance to implement an Andean antidrug strategy, including
 the commitments made at the Andean summit meeting described in subsection (c).
SEC. 3. MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE FOR BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA,
AND PERU.
 (a) PURPOSES OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance provided under this section shall
 be designed to--
 (1) enhance the ability of the Government of Bolivia, the Government of
 Colombia, and the Government of Peru to control illicit narcotics production
 and trafficking;
 (2) strengthen the bilateral ties of the United States with those governments
 by offering concrete assistance in this area of great mutual concern; and
 (3) strengthen respect for internationally recognized human rights and
 the rule of law in efforts to control illicit narcotics production and
 trafficking.
 (b) MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING- Subject to the requirements of this
 section, the President is authorized to use the funds made available to
 carry out this section to provide defense articles, defense services,
 and international military education and training to Bolivia, Colombia,
 and Peru. Such assistance shall be provided under the authorities of
 section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763; relating to
 the foreign military financing program) and chapter 5 of part II of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 and following; relating
 to international military education and training). Such assistance is in
 addition to any other such assistance made available to those countries.
 (c) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING-
 (1) AUTHORIZED FORMS AND RECIPIENTS OF ASSISTANCE- Subject to paragraph (2),
 up to $6,500,000 of the funds made available to carry out this section may
 be used, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2420; relating to the prohibition on law enforcement assistance)--
 (A) to provide to law enforcement agencies, or other units, that are organized
 for the specific purpose of narcotics enforcement by the Government of
 Bolivia, the Government of Colombia, or the Government of Peru, education
 and training in the operation and maintenance of equipment used in narcotics
 control interdiction and eradication efforts; and
 (B) for the expenses of deploying, upon the request of the Government of
 Bolivia, the Government of Colombia, or the Government of Peru, Department
 of Defense mobile training teams in that country to conduct training in
 military-related individual and collective skills that will enhance that
 country's ability to conduct tactical operations in narcotics interdiction.
 (2) OFFSETTING REDUCTION- The amount that may be used under paragraph
 (1) shall be reduced by the amount of any assistance provided for Bolivia,
 Colombia, or Peru under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
 Programs Appropriations Act, 1990, for the purposes specified in subparagraph
 (A) or (B) of paragraph (1).
 (d) EQUIPMENT FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT UNITS-
 (1) AUTHORIZED FORMS AND RECIPIENTS OF ASSISTANCE- Subject to paragraph (2),
 up to $12,500,000 of the funds made available to carry out this section may
 be used, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2420; relating to the prohibition on law enforcement assistance),
 for the procurement of defense articles for use in narcotics control,
 eradication, and interdiction efforts by law enforcement agencies, or other
 units, that are organized for the specific purpose of narcotics enforcement.
 (2) OFFSETTING REDUCTION- The amount that may be used under paragraph (1)
 shall be reduced by the amount of any assistance provided for Bolivia,
 Colombia, or Peru under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and
 Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990, for the procurement of weapons or
 ammunition in accordance with the general authorities contained in section
 481(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (e) CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY- Assistance may be provided under this section
 to Bolivia, Colombia, or Peru only--
 (1) so long as that country has a democratic government; and
 (2) the law enforcement agencies of that country do not engage in a consistent
 pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights
 (as defined in section 502B(d)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2304(d)(1)).
 (f) NOTIFICATIONS TO CONGRESS- Not less than 15 days before funds are
 obligated pursuant to this section, the President shall transmit to the
 congressional committees specified in section 634A of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394-1) a written notification in accordance with the
 procedures applicable to reprogrammings under that section. Such notification
 shall specify--
 (1) the country to which the assistance is to be provided;
 (2) the type and value of the assistance to be provided;
 (3) the law enforcement agencies or other units that will receive the
 assistance; and
 (4) an explanation of how the proposed assistance will achieve the purposes
 specified in subsection (a) of this section.
 (g) REPORTS ON HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION- Section 502B(c) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304(c); relating to country-specific
 human rights reports upon the request of the foreign affairs committees)
 applies with respect to countries for which assistance authorized by this
 section is proposed or is being provided.
 (h) COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM-
 Assistance under this section shall be coordinated with assistance
 provided under chapter 8 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2291 and following; relating to international narcotics control
 assistance).
 (i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 $125,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 to carry out this section, which amount
 is authorized to be made available until expended.
SEC. 4. ACQUISITION BY SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND OF DEFENSE ARTICLES
FOR NARCOTICS CONTROL PURPOSES.
 Section 51(a) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2795(a)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(4)(A) The Fund shall also be used to acquire defense articles that
 are particularly suited for use for narcotics control purposes and are
 appropriate to the needs of recipient countries, such as small boats, planes
 (including helicopters), and communications equipment.
 `(B) Each report pursuant to section 53(a) shall designate the defense
 articles that have been acquired or are to be acquired pursuant to this
 paragraph and the defense articles acquired under this chapter that were
 transferred for use in narcotics control purposes.'.
SEC. 5. EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES FOR CERTAIN MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING
COUNTRIES.
 Chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2311
 and following) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 517. MODERNIZATION OF MILITARY CAPABILITIES OF CERTAIN MAJOR ILLICIT
DRUG PRODUCING COUNTRIES.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES- Subject to the limitations
 in this section, the President may transfer to a country--
 `(1) which is a major illicit drug producing country (as defined in section
 481(i)(2)) in Latin America and the Caribbean,
 `(2) which has a democratic government, and
 `(3) whose armed forces do not engage in a consistent pattern of gross
 violations of internationally recognized human rights (as defined in
 section 502B(d)(1)),
such excess defense articles as may be necessary to carry out subsection (b).
 `(b) PURPOSE- Excess defense articles may be transferred under subsection
 (a) only for the purpose of encouraging the military forces of an eligible
 country in Latin America and the Caribbean to participate with local law
 enforcement agencies in a comprehensive national antinarcotics program,
 conceived and developed by the government of that country, by conducting
 activities within that country and on the high seas to prevent the production,
 processing, trafficking, transportation, and consumption of illicit narcotic
 or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances (as defined in section
 481(i)(3)).
 `(c) USES OF EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES- Excess defense articles may be furnished
 to a country under subsection (a) only if that country ensures that those
 excess defense articles will be used only in support of antinarcotics
 activities.
 `(d) ROLE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE- The Secretary of State shall
 determine the eligibility of countries to receive excess defense articles
 under subsection (a). In accordance with section 4601 of the International
 Narcotics Control Act of 1988, the Secretary shall ensure that the transfer
 of excess defense articles under subsection (a) is coordinated with other
 antinarcotics enforcement programs assisted by the United States Government.
 `(e) DOLLAR LIMITATION- The aggregate value of excess defense articles
 transferred to a country under subsection (a) in any fiscal year may not
 exceed $10,000,000.
 `(f) CONDITIONS ON TRANSFERS- The President may transfer excess defense
 articles under this section only if--
 `(1) they are drawn from existing stocks of the Department of Defense;
 `(2) funds available to the Department of Defense for the procurement of
 defense equipment are not expended in connection with the transfer; and
 `(3) the President determines that the transfer of the excess defense
 articles will not have an adverse impact on the military readiness of the
 United States.
 `(g) TERMS OF TRANSFERS- Excess defense articles may be transferred under
 this section without cost to the recipient country.
 `(h) WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF DOD EXPENSES- Section 632(d)
 does not apply with respect to transfers of excess defense articles under
 this section.
 `(i) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS-
 `(1) ADVANCE NOTICE- The President may not transfer excess defense articles
 under this section until 30 days after the President has provided notice
 of the proposed transfer to the committees specified in paragraph (2). This
 notification shall include--
 `(A) a certification of the need for the transfer;
 `(B) an assessment of the impact of the transfer on the military readiness
 of the United States; and
 `(C) a statement of the value of the excess defense articles to be
 transferred.
 `(2) COMMITTEES TO BE NOTIFIED- Notice shall be provided pursuant to paragraph
 (1) to the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
 and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and
 the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.'.
SEC. 6. WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT FOR MAJOR COCA PRODUCING
COUNTRIES.
 During fiscal year 1990, section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2370(q)) and section 518 of the Foreign Operations,
 Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriation Act, 1990, do not
 apply with respect to narcotics-related assistance for a country which is
 a major illicit drug producing country (as defined in section 481(i)(2)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961) because of its coca production.
SEC. 7. MEXICO.
 (a) LIMITATION ON NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE-
 (1) LIMITATION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), not more than $15,000,000
 of the amounts made available for fiscal year 1990 to carry out chapter 8 of
 part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291 and following;
 relating to international narcotics control assistance) may be made available
 for Mexico.
 (2) PROCEDURE FOR ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE- Assistance in excess of the
 amount specified in paragraph (1) may be made available for Mexico only
 if the congressional committees specified in section 634A of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394-1) are notified at least 15 days
 in advance in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogrammings
 under that section.
 (b) SENATE POLICY TOWARD THE CONTROL OF ILLEGAL DRUGS IN MEXICO-
 (1) FINDINGS- The Senate finds that--
 (A) the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 requires, except in cases of vital
 national interest, that all countries determined to be a major illicit drug
 producing country or a major drug-transit country must be `cooperating fully'
 with United States antinarcotics activities in order to continue receiving
 various forms of United States foreign assistance;
 (B) relations between the United States and Mexico have suffered since the
 1985 kidnapping and murder of Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique
 Camarena and the 1986 torture of DEA agent Victor Cortez;
 (C) testimony before the Senate dating to 1986 has indicated that high-ranking
 Mexican government, military, and law enforcement officials have been
 involved in illegal narcotics operations, including narcotics trafficking
 operations into the United States;
 (D) Mexico has been determined to be the primary producer of marijuana
 and heroin entering the United States and the transit point for up to 50
 percent of the cocaine being smuggled into this country;
 (E) there have been three drug-related mass murders involving more than 30
 victims along the southwest border in recent months involving Mexican drug
 trafficking organizations;
 (F) the United States continues to seek, with Mexican cooperation,
 hot pursuit and overflight authority for United States law enforcement
 agencies, access to bank records, verification of eradication figures,
 information on those who have been tried, charged, sentenced, and served
 time for narcotics-related crimes, and extradition of criminal figures;
 (G) there was sworn in a new president and Government of Mexico on December
 1, 1988, creating a new era of opportunity for increased cooperation and
 mutual friendship;
 (H) the new President of Mexico, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, has indicated
 a strong willingness to expand and improve Mexico's antinarcotics activities;
 (I) the Chief of the Mexico City Police Investigative Service, Miguel Nazar
 Haro, who is under indictment in the United States, has been fired;
 (J) the Government of Mexico has arrested Miguel Angel Felix-Gallardo,
 one of the most notorious drug trafficking figures in Mexico;
 (K) Mexican officials have for the first time conceded that corrupt Mexican
 officials, including law enforcement, government, and military officials,
 have previously protected Mr. Gallardo; and
 (L) criminal charges of electoral fraud against the mayor of Hermosillo,
 Carlos Robles, and homicide and arms charges against the head of Mexico's
 Oil Workers Union, Joaquin Hernandez Galicia, have been filed.
 (2) SENATE POLICY- It is the sense of the Senate that--
 (A) President Salinas should be supported in his expressed willingness to
 end the narcotics-related corruption that has permeated the Government of
 Mexico in the past;
 (B) Mexico should conclude the prosecution of the murders of Drug Enforcement
 Administration agent Camarena, the perpetrators of torture against DEA
 agent Cortez, and make progress in the prosecution of Felix-Gallardo;
 (C) Mexico should demonstrate its commitment to cooperating fully in
 antinarcotics activities by entering into negotiations with the United
 States on--
 (i) joint overflight and hot pursuit operations, involving Mexican law
 enforcement officials traveling on United States interdiction aircraft with
 Mexican officers having responsibility for actual arrests of suspects;
 (ii) participation of United States law enforcement agencies in air
 surveillance flights for interdiction efforts and joint United States-Mexico
 border enforcement and interdiction operations;
 (iii) United States requests for access to bank records to assist in carrying
 out narcotics-related investigations; and
 (iv) United States requests for verification of eradication statistics,
 including ground verification; and
 (D) the people of Mexico should be supported in their efforts to rid their
 country of illicit narcotics, bribery and corruption, and electoral fraud.
SEC. 8. NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES TO CERTAIN MAJOR
DRUG-TRANSIT COUNTRIES.
 Section 481(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply with
 respect to a major drug-transit country for fiscal year 1990 if the President
 certifies to the Congress, during that fiscal year, that--
 (1) subparagraph (C) of section 481(i)(5) of that Act, relating to money
 laundering, does not apply to that country;
 (2) the country previously was a major illicit drug producing country but,
 during each of the preceding two years, has effectively eliminated illicit
 drug production; and
 (3) the country is cooperating fully with the United States or has taken
 adequate steps on its own--
 (A) in satisfying the goals agreed to in an applicable bilateral narcotics
 agreement with the United States (as described in section 481(h)(2)(B)
 of that Act) or a multilateral agreement which achieves the objectives of
 that section;
 (B) in preventing narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
 substances transported through such country from being sold illegally within
 the jurisdiction of such country to United States Government personnel or
 their dependents or from being transported, directly or indirectly, into
 the United States; and
 (C) in preventing and punishing bribery and other forms of public corruption
 which facilitate the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and
 psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances, or which discourage
 the investigation and prosecution of such acts.
SEC. 9. COORDINATION OF UNITED STATES TRADE POLICY AND NARCOTICS CONTROL
OBJECTIVES.
 (a) NEED FOR COORDINATION- It is the sense of the Congress that United States
 trade policy should be coordinated with United States narcotics control
 objectives, particularly with respect to issues such as the International
 Coffee Agreement.
 (b) PRESIDENTIAL REVIEW- The Congress commends the President for reviewing
 whether the International Coffee Agreement negotiations should be resumed
 and whether the trade benefits provided in the Caribbean Basin Economic
 Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2701 and following) should be extended to the major
 coca producing countries of Latin America.
SEC. 10. DEBT-FOR-DRUGS EXCHANGES.
 (a) AUTHORITY- The President may release Bolivia, Colombia, or Peru from its
 obligation to make payments to the United States Government of principal
 and interest on account of a loan made to that country under the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 and following; relating to foreign
 assistance programs) or credits extended for that country under section 23
 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763; relating to foreign military
 sales credits) if the President determines that that country is implementing
 programs to reduce the flow of cocaine to the United States in accordance
 with a formal bilateral or multilateral agreement, to which the United
 States is a party, that contains specific, quantitative and qualitative,
 performance criteria with respect to those programs.
 (b) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF AGREEMENTS- The President shall submit any such
 agreement with Bolivia, Colombia, or Peru to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
 of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of
 the Senate at least 15 days before exercising the authority of section (a)
 with respect to that country.
 (b) COORDINATION WITH MULTILATERAL DEBT RELIEF ACTIVITIES- The authority
 provided in subsection (a) shall be exercised in coordination with
 multilateral debt relief activities.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (a) takes effect on October 1, 1990.
SEC. 11. MULTILATERAL ANTINARCOTICS STRIKE FORCE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Congress has, in the past, indicated its support for a multilateral,
 regional approach to narcotics control efforts;
 (2) a proposal to create a multilateral, international antinarcotics force
 for the Western Hemisphere, is a plan worthy of praise and strong United
 States support;
 (3) the development of a greater capability to assist the governments of
 Latin America and the Caribbean, including the Caribbean Basin nations,
 is an essential component of efforts to interdict the flow of narcotics to
 the United States; and
 (4) regional leadership in the promotion of a multilateral, paramilitary
 force to combat the drug cartels is welcomed and encouraged.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is therefore the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the proposal for the promotion of a regional multilateral antinarcotics
 force for the Western Hemisphere should be endorsed; and
 (2) the United States should work through the United Nations, the Organization
 of American States, and other multilateral organizations to determine the
 feasibility of such a force and should assist in the establishment of this
 force if it is found to be feasible.
SEC. 12. WEAPONS TRANSFERS TO INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS.
 (a) HALTING WEAPONS TRANSFERS TO NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS- The Congress
 urges the President to seek agreement by the relevant foreign countries,
 especially the member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 and the member countries of the Warsaw Pact, to join with the United States
 in taking the necessary steps to halt transfers of weapons to narcotics
 traffickers in Latin America.
 (b) COORDINATION OF UNITED STATES EFFORTS TO TRACK ILLEGAL ARMS TRANSFERS-
 The Congress urges the President to improve the coordination of United
 States Government efforts--
 (1) to track the flow of weapons illegally from the United States and other
 countries to international narcotics traffickers, and
 (2) to prevent such illegal shipments from the United States.
 (c) INTERPOL- The Congress calls upon the President to direct the United
 States representative to INTERPOL to urge that organization to study the
 feasibility of creating an international database on the flow of those types
 of weapons that are being acquired illegally by international narcotics
 traffickers.
 (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the President shall report to the Congress on the steps taken
 in accordance with this section.
SEC. 13. REWARDS FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING ACTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM.
 (a) AMENDMENT- Subject to subsection (b), section 36(c) of the State
 Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(c)) is amended by
 striking out `$500,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$2,000,000'.
 (b) AVOIDING DUPLICATIVE AMENDMENTS- If the Foreign Relations Authorization
 Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991, is enacted before this Act, and that Act
 makes the same amendment as is described in subsection (a), then subsection
 (a) shall not take effect. If, however, this Act is enacted before the
 Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991, and that
 Act would make the same amendment as is made by subsection (a), then that
 amendment as proposed to be made by that Act shall not take effect.
SEC. 14. WAIVER OF BUMPERS AMENDMENT.
 (a) ASSISTANCE FOR CROP SUBSTITUTION ACTIVITIES- During fiscal year 1990,
 the provisions described in subsection (b) do not apply with respect to
 assistance for crop substitution activities undertaken in furtherance of
 narcotics control objectives.
 (b) BUMPERS AMENDMENT- The provisions made inapplicable by subsection (a)
 are any provisions of the annual Foreign Operations, Export Financing,
 and Related Programs Appropriations Act that prohibit the use of funds
 made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 for activities in connection with the growth or production in a foreign
 country of an agricultural commodity for export which would compete with
 a similar commodity grown or produced in the United States.
SEC. 15. PARTICIPATION IN FOREIGN POLICE ACTIONS.
 Section 481(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(c))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) PARTICIPATION IN FOREIGN POLICE ACTIONS-
 `(1) PROHIBITION ON EFFECTING AN ARREST- No officer or employee of the
 United States may directly effect an arrest in any foreign country as part
 of any foreign police action with respect to narcotics control efforts,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law.
 `(2) PARTICIPATION IN ARREST ACTIONS- Paragraph (1) does not prohibit an
 officer or employee of the United States, with the approval of the United
 States chief of mission, from being present when foreign officers are
 effecting an arrest or from assisting foreign officers who are effecting
 an arrest.
 `(3) EXCEPTION FOR EXIGENT, THREATENING CIRCUMSTANCES- Paragraph (1) does
 not prohibit an officer or employee from taking direct action to protect
 life or safety if exigent circumstances arise which are unanticipated and
 which pose an immediate threat to United States officers or employees,
 officers or employees of a foreign government, or members of the public.
 `(4) EXCEPTION FOR MARITIME LAW ENFORCEMENT- With the agreement of a foreign
 country, paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to maritime law enforcement
 operations in the territorial sea of that country.
 `(5) INTERROGATIONS- No officer or employee of the United States may
 interrogate or be present during the interrogation of any United States
 person arrested in any foreign country with respect to narcotics control
 efforts without the written consent of such person.
 `(6) EXCEPTION FOR STATUS OF FORCES ARRANGEMENTS- This subsection does not
 apply to the activities of the United States Armed Forces in carrying out
 their responsibilities under applicable Status of Forces arrangements.'.
SEC. 16. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL
ASSISTANCE.
 Section 482(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2292(a)(1))
 is amended by striking out `$101,000,000 for fiscal year 1989' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `$115,000,000 for fiscal year 1990'.
SEC. 17. REVISIONS OF CERTAIN NARCOTICS-RELATED PROVISIONS OF THE FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE ACT.
 (a) PLANS BY SIGNATORIES TO 1961 SINGLE CONVENTION- Section 481(a)(1) of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(a)(1)) is amended by
 striking out the last sentence.
 (b) QUARTERLY AND MID-YEAR REPORTS- Section 481(b) of that Act (22
 U.S.C. 2291(b)) is amended by striking out `(1)' and all that follows through
 `August' in paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof `MID-YEAR REPORT-
 Not later than September'.
 (c) USE OF HERBICIDES FOR AERIAL ERADICATION- Section 481(d) of that Act
 (22 U.S.C. 2291(d)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d) USE OF HERBICIDES FOR AERIAL ERADICATION-
 `(1) MONITORING- The President, with the assistance of appropriate Federal
 agencies, shall monitor any use under this chapter of a herbicide for aerial
 eradication in order to determine the impact of such use on the environment
 and on the health of individuals.
 `(2) NOTICE TO HHS AND EPA- The Secretary of State shall inform the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services and the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency of the use or intended use by any country or international
 organization of any herbicide for aerial eradication in a program receiving
 assistance under this chapter.
 `(3) ANNUAL REPORTS- In the annual report required by subsection (e), the
 President shall report on the impact on the environment and the health
 of individuals of the use under this chapter of a herbicide for aerial
 eradication.
 `(4) REPORT UPON DETERMINATION OF HARM TO ENVIRONMENT OR HEALTH- If the
 President determines that any such use is harmful to the environment
 or the health of individuals, the President shall immediately report
 that determination to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate,
 together with such recommendations as the President deems appropriate.'.
 (d) DEFINITION OF COOPERATION- Section 481(h) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2291(h))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2)(A)(i)(IV), by inserting `illicit' before `production';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B)(iii), by striking out `treatment' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `education and treatment programs';
 (3) in paragraph (2)(B)(v), by inserting `essential' before `precursor'; and
 (4) in paragraph (3)(D), by inserting `illicit' before `production'.
 (e) DEFINITION OF MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING COUNTRY- Section 481(i)(2)
 of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2291(i)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) the term `major illicit drug producing country' means a country that
 illicitly produces during a fiscal year 5 metric tons or more of opium or
 opium derivative, 500 metric tons or more of coca, or 500 metric tons or
 more of marijuana;'.
 (f) DETERMINING MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING AND DRUG-TRANSIT COUNTRIES-
 Section 481(k) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2291(k)) is amended by striking out
 paragraph (4).
 (g) CONTRIBUTION BY RECIPIENT COUNTRY- Section 482(d) of that Act (22
 U.S.C. 2292(d)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d) CONTRIBUTION BY RECIPIENT COUNTRY- To ensure local commitment to the
 activities assisted under this chapter, a country receiving assistance
 under this chapter should bear an appropriate share of the costs of any
 narcotics control program, project, or activity for which such assistance
 is to be provided. A country may bear such costs on an `in kind' basis.'.
 (h) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO NARCOTICS CONTROL TRADE ACT- The Narcotics
 Control Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2492 and following) is amended--
 (1) in section 802(b)(1)(A)(i)(IV), by inserting `illicit' before
 `production';
 (2) in section 802(b)(1)(B)(iii), by striking out `treatment' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `education and treatment programs';
 (3) in section 802(b)(1)(B)(v), by inserting `essential' before `precursor';
 (4) in section 802(b)(2)(D), by inserting `illicit' before `production';
and
 (5) in section 805, by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
 `(2) the term `major drug producing country' means a country that illicitly
 produces during a fiscal year 5 metric tons or more of opium or opium
 derivative, 500 metric tons or more of coca, or 500 metric tons or more of
 marijuana; and'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.