 
--H.R.310--
H.R.310
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To remove a restriction from a parcel of land in Roanoke, Virginia, in order
for that land to be conveyed to the State of Virginia for use as a veterans
nursing home.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REMOVAL OF RESTRICTION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 2, the Secretary of the Interior shall
 execute such instruments as may be necessary to remove the restriction that
 the parcel of land described in subsection (b) be used exclusively for public
 park or public recreation purposes in perpetuity on the condition that the
 city of Roanoke, Virginia, transfer such land to the State of Virginia for
 use as a veterans nursing home.
 (b) LAND DESCRIPTION- The parcel of land referred to in subsection (a) is
 that parcel known as Veterans Park which is comprised of approximately 16.8
 acres and was conveyed to the city of Roanoke, Virginia, by the United States
 on June 25, 1980 (recorded in the city of Roanoke Deed Book 1455, page 1154).
SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON REMOVAL.
 The Secretary of the Interior may not remove the restriction described in
 section 1(a) if, within 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the State of Virginia has not committed funds with respect to the parcel
 described in section 1(b) in an amount sufficient--
 (1) to comply with the State's obligation under section 5035 of title 38,
 United States Code (relating to applications with respect to projects;
 payments), or
 (2) to construct, without a Federal grant, a veterans nursing home.
SEC. 3. REVERSION.
 If, after the removal of the restriction described in section 1(a), the
 parcel referred to in section 1(b) ceases to be used for the purposes of
 a veterans nursing home, the parcel shall revert to the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.