 
--H.R.3703--
H.R.3703
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the Rumsey Indian Rancheria to convey a certain parcel of land.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--RUMSEY INDIAN RANCHERIA
SECTION 101. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Rumsey Indian Rancheria, a part of the Wintun Tribe of Indians,
 is a federally recognized Indian tribe, located in Rumsey, California,
 where eighty-three and thirty-nine hundredths acres of land are held in
 trust for the Rancheria by the United States;
 (2) in February, 1987, fee simple title to property located at lot 23,
 Sierra Meadows subdivision, unit 5A, Washoe County, Nevada, commonly known
 as 978 O'Callahan Street, Sparks, Nevada, was transferred to the Rancheria
 which it presently holds under the name Wintun Indian Tribe;
 (3) such property is located approximately one hundred twenty-five miles
 from the Rancheria trust land base in California, and ownership of such
 land, which is in a residential area, provides no significant benefit for
 the tribal members;
 (4) the most beneficial use of such land is to sell it at its present market
 value and to utilize the proceeds for the improvement of the tribe's economic
 and social welfare; and
 (5) section 2116 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 177) prohibits the
 conveyance of any lands owned by Indian tribes without the consent of
 Congress.
SEC. 102. CONVEYANCE OF LAND.
 (a) AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding section 2116 of the Revised Statutes (25
 U.S.C. 177), Rumsey Indian Rancheria is authorized to convey that land
 known as lot 23, Sierra Meadows subdivision, unit 5A, Washoe County, Nevada,
 commonly known as 978 O'Callahan Street, Sparks, Nevada, to any bona fide
 purchaser for value.
 (b) PROCEEDS- Proceeds from the conveyance of land pursuant to subsection
 (a) may be used only for the economic development and social welfare of
 the Rumsey Indian Rancheria.
TITLE II--MILLE LACS INDIAN RESERVATION LEASE
SEC. 201. MILLE LACS INDIAN RESERVATION LEASE TO MINNESOTA STATE HISTORICAL
SOCIETY.
 The first section of the Act of August 9, 1955 (25 U.S.C. 415), is amended
 by inserting `the Mille Lacs Indian Reservation with respect to a lease
 between an entity established by the Mille Lacs Band of Chippewa Indians
 and the Minnesota Historical Society,' after `the Navajo Reservation,'.
TITLE III--INDIAN FOREST AND WOODLANDS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Indian Forest Resources Management
 Act'.
SEC. 302. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) the forest lands of Indians are among their most valuable resources
 and Indian forest lands--
 (A) encompass more than 15,990,000 acres, including more than 5,700,000
 acres of commercial forest land and 8,700,000 acres of woodland,
 (B) are a perpetually renewable and manageable resource,
 (C) provide economic benefits, including income, employment, and subsistence,
 and
 (D) provide natural benefits, including ecological, cultural, and esthetic
 values;
 (2) the United States has a trust responsibility toward Indian forest lands;
 (3) existing Federal laws do not sufficiently assure the adequate and
 necessary trust management of Indian forest lands;
 (4) the Federal investment in, and the management of, Indian forest land
 is significantly below the level of investment in, and management of,
 National Forest Service forest land, Bureau of Land Management forest land,
 or private forest land;
 (5) tribal governments make substantial contributions to the overall
 management of Indian forest land; and
 (6) there is a serious threat to Indian forest lands arising from trespass
 and unauthorized harvesting of Indian forest land resources.
SEC. 303. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this title are to--
 (1) allow the Secretary of the Interior to take part in the management of
 Indian forest lands, with the participation of the lands' beneficial owners,
 in a manner consistent with the Secretary's trust responsibility and with
 the objectives of the beneficial owners;
 (2) clarify the authority of the Secretary to make deductions from the
 proceeds of sale of Indian forest products, assure the use of such deductions
 on the reservation from which they are derived solely for use in forest land
 management activities, and assure that no other deductions shall be collected;
 (3) increase the number of professional Indian foresters and related staff
 in forestry programs on Indian forest land; and
 (4) provide for the authorization of necessary appropriations to carry
 out this title for the protection, conservation, utilization, management,
 and enhancement of Indian forest lands.
SEC. 304. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this title, the term--
 (1) `Alaska Native' means Native as defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska
 Native Claims Settlement Act of December 18, 1971 (43 U.S.C. 1604);
 (2) `forest' means an ecosystem of at least one acre in size, including
 timberland and woodland, which--
 (A) is characterized by a more or less dense and extensive tree cover,
 (B) contains, or once contained, at least ten percent tree crown cover, and
 (C) is not developed or planned for exclusive nonforest use;
 (3) `Indian forest land' means Indian lands, including commercial and
 non-commercial timberland and woodland, that are considered chiefly valuable
 for the production of forest products or to maintain watershed or other land
 values enhanced by a forest cover, regardless whether a formal inspection
 and land classification action has been taken;
 (4) `forest land management activities' means all activities performed in
 the management of Indian forest lands, including--
 (A) all aspects of program administration and executive direction such as--
 (i) development and maintenance of policy and operational procedures,
 program oversight, and evaluation,
 (ii) securing of legal assistance and handling of legal matters,
 (iii) budget, finance, and personnel management, and
 (iv) development and maintenance of necessary data bases and program reports;
 (B) all aspects of the development, preparation and revision of forest
 inventory and management plans, including aerial photography, mapping,
 field management inventories and re-inventories, inventory analysis, growth
 studies, allowable annual cut calculations, environmental assessment,
 and forest history, consistent with and reflective of tribal integrated
 resource management plans;
 (C) forest land development, including forestation, thinning, tree improvement
 activities, and the use of silvicultural treatments to restore or increase
 growth and yield to the full productive capacity of the forest environment;
 (D) protection against losses from wildfire, including acquisition
 and maintenance of fire fighting equipment and fire detection systems,
 construction of firebreaks, hazard reduction, prescribed burning, and the
 development of cooperative wildfire management agreements;
 (E) protection against insects and disease, including--
 (i) all aspects of detection and evaluation,
 (ii) preparation of project proposals containing project description,
 environmental assessments and statements, and cost-benefit analyses necessary
 to secure funding,
 (iii) field suppression operations, and
 (iv) reporting;
 (F) assessment of damage caused by forest trespass, infestation or fire,
 including field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation
 assistance, and report, demand letter, and testimony preparation;
 (G) all aspects of the preparation, administration, and supervision of
 timber sale contracts, paid and free use permits, and other Indian forest
 product harvest sale documents including--
 (i) cruising, product marking, silvicultural prescription, appraisal and
 harvest supervision,
 (ii) forest product marketing assistance, including evaluation of
 marketing and development opportunities related to Indian forest products
 and consultation and advice to tribes, tribal and Indian enterprises on
 maximization of return on forest products,
 (iii) archeological, historical, environmental and other land management
 reviews, clearances, and analyses,
 (iv) advertising, executing, and supervising contracts,
 (v) marking and scaling of timber, and
 (vi) collecting, recording and distributing receipts from sales;
 (H) provision of financial assistance for the education of Indians enrolled
 in accredited programs of postsecondary and postgraduate forestry and
 forestry-related fields of study, including the provision of scholarships,
 internships, relocation assistance, and other forms of assistance to cover
 educational expenses;
 (I) participation in the development and implementation of tribal integrated
 resource management plans, including activities to coordinate current and
 future multiple uses of Indian forest lands;
 (J) improvement and maintenance of extended season primary and secondary
 Indian forest land road systems; and
 (K) research activities to improve the basis for determining appropriate
 management measures to apply to Indian forest lands;
 (5) `forest management plan' means the principal document, approved by the
 Secretary, reflecting and consistent with a tribal integrated resource
 management plan, which provides for the regulation of the detailed,
 multiple-use operation of Indian forest land by methods assuring that such
 lands remain in a continuously productive state while meeting the objectives
 of the tribe and which shall include--
 (A) standards setting forth the funding and staffing requirements necessary
 to carry out each management plan, with a report of current forestry funding
 and staffing levels; and
 (B) standards providing quantitative criteria to evaluate performance
 against the objectives set forth in the plan;
 (6) `forest product' means--
 (A) timber,
 (B) a timber product, including lumber, lath, crating, ties, bolts, logs,
 pulpwood, fuelwood, posts, poles and split products,
 (C) bark,
 (D) Christmas trees, stays, branches, firewood, berries, mosses, pinyon nuts,
 roots, acorns, syrups, wild rice, and herbs,
 (E) other marketable material, and
 (F) gravel which is extracted from, and utilized on, Indian forest lands;
 (7) `forest resources' means all the benefits derived from Indian forest
 lands, including forest products, soil productivity, water, fisheries,
 wildlife, recreation, and aesthetic or other traditional values of Indian
 forest lands;
 (8) `forest trespass' means the act of illegally removing forest products
 from, or illegally damaging forest products on, forest lands;
 (9) `Indian' means a member of an Indian tribe;
 (10) `Indian land' means land title to which is held by--
 (A) the United States in trust for an Indian, an individual of Indian or
 Alaska Native ancestry who is not a member of a federally-recognized Indian
 tribe, or an Indian tribe, or
 (B) an Indian, an individual of Indian or Alaska Native ancestry who is
 not a member of a federally recognized tribe, or an Indian tribe subject
 to a restriction by the United States against alienation;
 (11) `Indian tribe' or `tribe' means any Indian tribe, band, nation, Pueblo
 or other organized group or community which is recognized as eligible for
 the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians
 because of their status as Indians and shall mean, where appropriate,
 the recognized tribal government of such tribe's reservation;
 (12) `reservation' includes Indian reservations established pursuant
 to treaties, Acts of Congress or Executive orders, public domain Indian
 allotments, and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma;
 (13) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
 (14) `sustained yield' means the yield of forest products that a forest
 can produce continuously at a given intensity of management; and
 (15) `tribal integrated resource management plan' means a document, approved
 by an Indian tribe and the Secretary, which provides coordination for the
 comprehensive management of such tribe's natural resources.
SEC. 305. MANAGEMENT OF INDIAN FOREST LAND.
 (a) MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES- The Secretary shall undertake forest
 land management activities on Indian forest land, either directly or
 through contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants under the Indian
 Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
 (b) MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES- Indian forest land management activities undertaken
 by the Secretary shall be designed to achieve the following objectives--
 (1) the development, maintenance, and enhancement of Indian forest land
 in a perpetually productive state in accordance with the principles of
 sustained yield and with the standards and objectives set forth in forest
 management plans by providing effective management and protection through
 the application of sound silvicultural and economic principles to--
 (A) the harvesting of forest products,
 (B) forestation,
 (C) timber stand improvement, and
 (D) other forestry practices;
 (2) the regulation of Indian forest lands through the development and
 implementation, with the full and active consultation and participation of
 the appropriate Indian tribe, of forest management plans which are supported
 by written tribal objectives and forest marketing programs;
 (3) the regulation of Indian forest lands in a manner that will ensure the use
 of good method and order in harvesting so as to make possible, on a sustained
 yield basis, continuous productivity and a perpetual forest business;
 (4) the development of Indian forest lands and associated value-added
 industries by Indians and Indian tribes to promote self-sustaining
 communities, so that Indians may receive from their Indian forest land not
 only stumpage value, but also the benefit of all the labor and profit that
 such Indian forest land is capable of yielding;
 (5) the retention of Indian forest land in its natural state when an Indian
 tribe determines that the recreational, cultural, aesthetic, or traditional
 values of the Indian forest land represents the highest and best use of
 the land;
 (6) the management and protection of forest resources to retain the beneficial
 effects to Indian forest lands of regulating water run-off and minimizing
 soil erosion; and
 (7) the maintenance and improvement of timber productivity, grazing, wildlife,
 fisheries, recreation, aesthetic, cultural and other traditional values.
SEC. 306. FOREST MANAGEMENT DEDUCTION.
 (a) WITHHOLDING OF DEDUCTION- Pursuant to the authority of section 1 of the
 Act of February 14, 1920 (41 Stat. 415; 25 U.S.C. 413), the Secretary shall
 withhold a reasonable deduction from the gross proceeds of sales of forest
 products harvested from Indian forest land under a timber sale contract,
 permit, or other harvest sale document, which has been approved by the
 Secretary, to cover in whole or part the cost of managing and protecting
 such Indian forest land.
 (b) AMOUNT OF DEDUCTION- Deductions made pursuant to subsection (a) shall
 not exceed the lesser amount of--
 (1) 10 percent of gross proceeds, or
 (2) the percentage of gross proceeds collected on the date of enactment of
 this title as forest management deductions by the Secretary on such sales
 of Indian forest products,
unless the appropriate Indian tribe consents to an increase in the deductions.
 (c) USE OF DEDUCTION- The full amount of any deduction collected by
 the Secretary shall be expended according to an approved expenditure
 plan, approved by the Secretary and the appropriate Indian tribe, for the
 performance of forest land management activities on the reservation from which
 such deductions are collected and shall be made available to the tribe, upon
 its request, by contract or agreement for the performance of such activities.
 (d) LIMITATIONS- (1) Forest management deductions withheld pursuant to this
 section shall not be available to--
 (A) cover the costs that are paid from funds appropriated specifically for
 fire suppression or pest control, or
 (B) otherwise offset Federal appropriations for meeting the Federal trust
 responsibility for management of Indian forest lands.
 (2) No other forest management deductions derived from Indian forest lands
 shall be collected to be covered into the general funds of the United
 States Treasury.
SEC. 307. FOREST TRESPASS.
 (a) CIVIL PENALTIES; REGULATIONS- Not later than 18 months from the date
 of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall issue regulations that--
 (1) establish civil penalties for the commission of forest trespass which
 provide for--
 (A) collection of the value of the products illegally removed plus a penalty
 of double their value,
 (B) collection of the costs associated with damage to the Indian forest
 land caused by the act of trespass, and
 (C) collection of the costs associated with enforcement of the regulations,
 including field examination and survey, damage appraisal, investigation
 assistance and reports, witness expenses, demand letters, court costs,
 and attorney fees;
 (2) designate responsibility with the Department of the Interior for the
 detection and investigation of forest trespass; and
 (3) set forth responsibilities and procedures for the assessment and
 collection of civil penalties.
 (b) TREATMENT OF PROCEEDS- The proceeds of civil penalties collected under
 this section shall be treated as proceeds from the sale of forest products
 from the Indian forest lands upon which such trespass occurred.
 (c) CONCURRENT JURISDICTION- Indian tribes which adopt the regulations
 promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) shall have
 concurrent civil jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this section
 and the regulation promulgated thereunder. The Bureau of Indian Affairs
 and other agencies of the Federal Government shall, at the request of the
 tribe, defer to tribal prosecutions of forest trespass cases. Tribal court
 judgments regarding forest trespass shall be entitled to full faith and
 credit in Federal and State courts to the same extent as a Federal court
 judgment obtained under this section.
SEC. 308. DIRECT PAYMENT OF FOREST PRODUCTS RECEIPTS.
 (a) REGULATIONS- Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary shall, within
 1 year from the date of enactment of this title, promulgate regulations
 providing for the payment of the receipts from the sale of Indian forest
 products as provided in this section.
 (b) PAYMENT INTO A BANK DEPOSITORY- Upon the request of an Indian tribe, the
 Secretary shall provide that the purchaser of the forest products of such
 tribe, which are harvested under a timber sale contract, permit or other
 harvest sale document which has been approved by the Secretary, shall make
 prompt direct payments of the gross proceeds of sales of such forest products,
 less any amounts segregated as forest management deductions pursuant to
 section 306, into a bank depository account designated by such Indian tribe.
SEC. 309. SECRETARIAL RECOGNITION OF TRIBAL LAWS.
 Subject to the Secretary's responsibilities as reflected in sections 302(2)
 and 303(1) and unless otherwise prohibited by Federal statutory law,
 the Secretary shall comply with tribal laws pertaining to Indian forest
 lands, including laws regulating the environment or historic or cultural
 preservation, and shall cooperate with the enforcement of such laws on
 Indian forest lands. Such cooperation shall include--
 (1) assistance in the enforcement of such laws;
 (2) provision of notice of such laws to persons or entities undertaking
 activities on Indian forest lands; and
 (3) upon the request of an Indian tribe, the appearance in tribal forums.
SEC. 310. INDIAN FOREST LAND ASSISTANCE ACCOUNT.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- At the request of an Indian tribe, the Secretary may
 establish a special Indian forest land assistance account within the tribe's
 trust fund account to fund the Indian forest land management activities of
 such tribe.
 (b) DEPOSITS AND EXPENDITURES- (1) The Secretary may deposit into the
 Indian forest land assistance account established pursuant to subsection (a)
 any funds received by the Secretary or in the Secretary's possession from--
 (A) non-Federal sources, if such funds are related to activities on or for
 the Indian forest lands of such tribe's reservation,
 (B) donations and contributions,
 (C) unobligated forestry appropriations for the benefit of such Indian
 tribe, and
 (D) user fees or other funds transferred under Federal interagency agreements
 if otherwise authorized by Federal law and, if such funds are related to
 activities on or for the Indian forest lands of such tribe's reservation.
Funds deposited in such account shall be for the purpose of conducting forest
land management activities on the Indian forest lands of such tribe.
 (2) Funds in the Indian forest land assistance account and any interest or
 other income earned thereon shall remain available until expended and shall
 not be available to otherwise offset Federal appropriations for meeting
 the Federal responsibility for management of Indian forest lands.
 (c) AUDITS- At the request of an Indian tribe or upon the Secretary's
 own volition, the Secretary may conduct audits of the Indian forest land
 assistance account and shall publish the results of such audit.
SEC. 311. TRIBAL FORESTRY PROGRAMS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish within the Bureau of
 Indian Affairs a program to provide financial support to forestry programs
 established by an Indian tribe.
 (b) SUPPORT ALLOCATION FORMULA; CRITERIA- (1) The Secretary, with the
 participation of Indian tribes with Indian forest lands, shall establish,
 and promulgate by regulations, a formula--
 (A) for the determination of Indian tribes eligible for such support,
 (B) for the provision of levels of assistance for the forestry programs of
 such tribes, and
 (C) the allocation of base support funds to such tribes under the program
 established pursuant to subsection (a).
 (2) The formula established pursuant to this subsection shall provide
 funding necessary to support--
 (A) one professional forester, including fringe benefits and support costs,
 for each eligible tribe, and
 (B) one additional professional forester or forest technician, including
 fringe benefits and support costs, for each level of assistance for which
 an eligible Indian tribe qualifies.
 (3) In any fiscal year that appropriations are not sufficient to fully
 fund tribal forestry programs at each level of assistance under the formula
 required to be established in this section, available funds for each level
 of assistance shall be evenly divided among the tribes qualifying for that
 level of assistance.
SEC. 312. ASSESSMENT OF INDIAN FOREST LAND AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS.
 (a) INITIAL ASSESSMENT- (1) Within 1 year after the date of enactment of
 this title, the Secretary, in consultation with affected Indian tribes,
 shall enter into a contract with a non-Federal entity knowledgeable in forest
 management practices on Federal and private lands to conduct an independent
 assessment of Indian forest lands and Indian forest land management practices.
 (2) Such assessment shall be national in scope and shall include--
 (A) an in-depth analysis of management practices on, and the level of funding
 for, specific Indian forest land compared with similar Federal and private
 forest lands,
 (B) a survey of the condition of Indian forest lands, including health and
 productivity levels,
 (C) an evaluation of the staffing patterns of forestry organizations of
 the Bureau of Indian Affairs and of Indian tribes,
 (D) an evaluation of procedures employed in timber sales administration,
 including preparation, field supervision, and accountability for proceeds,
 (E) an analysis of the potential for reducing or eliminating relevant
 administrative procedures, rules and policies of the Bureau of Indian
 Affairs consistent with the Federal trust responsibility,
 (F) a comprehensive review of the adequacy of Indian forest land management
 plans, including their compatibility with applicable tribal integrated
 resource management plans and their ability to meet tribal needs and
 priorities,
 (G) an evaluation of the feasibility and desirability of establishing minimum
 standards against which the adequacy of the forestry programs of the Bureau
 of Indian Affairs in fulfilling its trust responsibility to Indian tribes
 can be measured, and
 (H) a recommendation of any reforms and increased funding levels necessary to
 bring Indian forest land management programs to a state-of-the-art condition.
 (3) Such assessment shall include specific examples and comparisons from each
 of the regions of the United States where Indian forest lands are located.
 (4) The initial assessment required by this subsection shall be completed
 no later than 36 months following the date of enactment of this title. Upon
 completion, the assessment shall be submitted to the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the
 Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate and shall
 be made available to Indian tribes.
 (b) PERIODIC ASSESSMENTS- On each 10-year anniversary of the date of enactment
 of this title, the Secretary shall provide for an independent assessment
 of Indian forest lands and Indian forest land management practices under
 the criteria established in subsection (a) which shall include analyses
 measured against findings in previous assessments.
 (c) STATUS REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Secretary shall submit, within 1 year
 of the first full fiscal year after the date of enactment of this title
 and within 6 months of the end of each succeeding fiscal year, a report
 to Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
 Representatives, the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States
 Senate, and to the affected Indian tribes a report on the status of Indian
 forest lands with respect to standards, goals and objectives set forth in
 approved forest management plans for each Indian tribe with Indian forest
 lands. The report shall identify the amount of Indian forest land in need
 of forestation or other silviculture treatment and the quantity of timber
 available for sale, offered for sale, and sold for each Indian tribe.
 (d) ASSISTANCE FROM SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE- The Secretary of Agriculture,
 through the Forest Service, is authorized to provide, upon the request of the
 Secretary of the Interior, on a nonreimbursable basis, technical assistance
 in the conduct of such research and evaluation activities as may be necessary
 for the completion of any reports or assessments required by this title.
SEC. 313. ALASKA NATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary, in consultation with the village and
 regional corporations established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims
 Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), shall establish a program of
 technical assistance for such corporations to promote the sustained yield
 management of their forest resources. Such technical assistance shall also
 be available to promote local processing and other value-added activities
 with such forest resources.
 (b) INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION ACT- The technical assistance to be provided
 by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made available through
 contracts, grants or agreements entered into in accordance with, and made
 available to entities eligible for, such contracts, grants, or agreements
 under the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
SEC. 314. ESTABLISHMENT OF INDIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE FORESTRY EDUCATION
ASSISTANCE.
 (a) FORESTER INTERN PROGRAM- (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of title 5
 of the United States Code governing appointments in the competitive service,
 the Secretary shall establish and maintain in the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 at least 20 forester intern positions for Indian and Alaska Native students.
 (2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `forester intern' means an
 Indian or Alaska Native who--
 (A) is acquiring necessary academic qualifications to become a forester or
 a professional trained in forestry-related fields, and
 (B) is appointed to one of the positions established under paragraph (1).
 (3) The Secretary shall pay all costs for tuition, books, fees and
 living expenses incurred by a forester intern while attending an approved
 post-secondary or graduate school in a full-time forestry-related curriculum.
 (4) A forester intern shall be required to enter into an obligated service
 agreement to serve as a professional forester or other forestry-related
 professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, an Indian tribe, or a
 tribal forest-related enterprise for 2 years for each year of education
 for which the Secretary pays the intern's educational costs under paragraph
 (3) of this subsection.
 (5) A forester intern shall be required to report for service with the
 Bureau of Indian Affairs during any break in attendance at school of more
 than 3 weeks duration. Time spent in such service shall be counted toward
 satisfaction of the intern's obligated service agreement.
 (b) COOPERATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM- (1) The Secretary shall maintain,
 through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a cooperative education program for
 the purpose of recruiting promising Indian and Alaska Native students who
 are enrolled in secondary schools, tribally-controlled community colleges,
 and other post-secondary or graduate schools for employment as a professional
 forester or other forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian
 Affairs, an Indian tribe, or a tribal forest-related enterprise.
 (2) The cooperative educational program that is to be maintained under
 paragraph (1) shall be modeled on and shall have essentially the same
 features of the program operated on the date of enactment of this title
 pursuant to chapter 308 of the Federal Personnel Manual of the Office of
 Personnel Management.
 (3) Under the cooperative agreement program that is to be maintained under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall pay all costs for tuition, books, and
 fees of an Indian or Alaska Native student who--
 (A) is enrolled in a course of study at an education institution with which
 the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement, and
 (B) is interested in a career with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, an Indian
 tribe or a tribal enterprise in the management of Indian forest land.
 (4) Financial need shall not be a requirement to receive assistance under the
 cooperative agreement program that is to be maintained under this subsection.
 (5) A recipient of assistance under the cooperative education program
 that is to be maintained under this subsection shall be required to enter
 into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester
 or other forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
 an Indian tribe, or a tribal forest-related enterprise for one year for
 each year for which the Secretary pays the recipient's educational costs
 pursuant to paragraph (3).
 (c) SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM- (1) The Secretary is authorized to grant forestry
 scholarships to Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled in accredited programs
 for post-secondary and graduate forestry and forestry-related programs of
 study as full-time students.
 (2) A recipient of a scholarship under paragraph (1) shall be required
 to enter into an obligated service agreement with the Secretary in which
 the recipient agrees to accept employment for one year for each year the
 recipient received a scholarship, following completion of the recipient's
 forestry or forestry-related course of study, with
 (A) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
 (B) a forestry program conducted under a contract, grant, or cooperative
 agreement entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450
 et seq.);
 (C) an Indian enterprise engaged in a forestry or forestry-related
 business; or
 (D) an Indian tribe's forestry-related program.
 (3) The Secretary shall not deny scholarship assistance under this
 subsection solely on the basis of an applicant's scholastic achievement
 if the applicant has been admitted to and remains in good standing in an
 accredited postsecondary or graduate institution.
 (d) FORESTRY EDUCATION OUTREACH- The Secretary shall conduct, through the
 Bureau of Indian Affairs, and in consultation with other appropriate local,
 State and Federal agencies, and in consultation and coordination with Indian
 tribes, a forestry education outreach program for Indian and Alaska Native
 youth to explain and stimulate interest in all aspects of Indian forest
 land management and careers in forestry.
 (e) ADEQUACY OF PROGRAMS- The Secretary shall administer the programs
 described in this section until a sufficient number of Indians and Alaska
 Natives are trained to ensure that there is an adequate number of qualified,
 professional Indian foresters to manage the Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry
 programs and forestry programs maintained by or for Indian tribes.
SEC. 315. POSTGRADUATION RECRUITMENT, EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.
 (a) POSTGRADUATION RECRUITMENT- The Secretary shall establish and maintain
 a program to attract Indian and Alaska Native professional foresters
 and forester technicians who have already graduated from their course of
 postsecondary or graduate education for employment in either the Bureau of
 Indian Affairs forestry programs or, subject to the approval of the tribe,
 in tribal forestry programs. According to such regulations as the Secretary
 may prescribe, such program shall provide for the employment of Indian and
 Alaska Native professional foresters or forestry technicians in exchange for
 the Secretary's assumption of the employee's outstanding student loans. The
 period of employment shall be determined by the amount of the loan that
 is assumed.
 (b) POSTGRADUATE INTERGOVERNMENTAL INTERNSHIPS- For the purposes of training,
 skill development and orientation of Indian, Alaska native, and Federal
 forestry personnel, and the enhancement of tribal and Bureau of Indian
 Affairs forestry programs, the Secretary shall establish and actively
 conduct a program for the cooperative internship of Federal, Indian, and
 Alaska Native forestry personnel. Such program shall--
 (1) for agencies within the Department of the Interior--
 (A) provide for the internship of Bureau of Indian Affairs, Alaska Native,
 and Indian forestry employees in the forestry-related programs of other
 agencies of the Department of the Interior, and
 (B) provide for the internship of forestry personnel from other Department
 of the Interior agencies within the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, with the
 consent of the tribe, within tribal forestry programs;
 (2) for agencies not within the Department of the Interior, provide, pursuant
 to an interagency agreement, internships within the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 and, with the consent of the tribe, within a tribal forestry program of
 other forestry personnel of such agencies who are above their sixth year
 of Federal service;
 (3) provide for the continuation of salary and benefits for participating
 Federal employees by their originating agency;
 (4) provide for salaries and benefits of participating Indian and Alaska
 Native forestry employees by the host agency; and
 (5) provide for a bonus pay incentive at the conclusion of the internship
 for any participant.
 (c) CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING- The Secretary shall maintain a
 program within the Division of Forestry of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 for the ongoing education and training of Bureau of Indian Affairs, Alaska
 Native, and Indian forestry personnel. Such program shall provide for--
 (1) orientation training for Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry personnel
 in tribal-Federal relations and responsibilities;
 (2) continuing technical forestry education for Bureau of Indian Affairs,
 Alaska Native, and tribal forestry personnel; and
 (3) developmental training of Indian and Alaska Native personnel in forest
 land based enterprises and marketing.
SEC. 316. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND
INDIAN TRIBES.
 (a) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- (1) To facilitate the administration of the
 programs and activities of the Department of the Interior, the Secretary is
 authorized to negotiate and enter into cooperative agreements with Indian
 tribes to--
 (A) engage in cooperative manpower and job training and development programs,
 (B) to develop and publish cooperative environmental education and natural
 resource planning materials, and
 (C) to perform land and facility improvements, including forestry and other
 natural resources protection, fire protection, reforestation, timber stand
 improvement, debris removal, and other activities related to land and
 natural resource management.
The Secretary may enter into such agreements when the Secretary determines
the public interest will be benefited.
 (2) In such cooperative agreements, the Secretary is authorized to advance
 or reimburse funds to contractors from any appropriated funds available
 for similar kinds of work or by furnishing or sharing materials, supplies,
 facilities or equipment without regard to the provisions of section 3324,
 title 31, United States Code, relating to the advance of public moneys.
 (b) SUPERVISION- In any agreement authorized by this section, Indian tribes
 and their employees may perform cooperative work under the supervision
 of the Department of the Interior in emergencies or otherwise as mutually
 agreed to, but shall not be deemed to be Federal employees other than for
 purposes of section 2671 through 2680 of title 28, United States Code,
 and section 8101 through 8193 of title 5, United States Code.
 (c) SAVINGS CLAUSE- Nothing in this title shall be construed to limit the
 authority of the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements otherwise
 authorized by law.
SEC. 317. OBLIGATED SERVICE; BREACH OF CONTRACT.
 (a) OBLIGATED SERVICE- Where an individual enters into an agreement for
 obligated service in return for financial assistance under any provision of
 this title, the Secretary shall adopt such regulations as are necessary to
 provide for the offer of employment to the recipient of such assistance as
 required by such provision. Where an offer of employment is not reasonably
 made, the regulations shall provide that such service shall no longer
 be required.
 (b) BREACH OF CONTRACT; REPAYMENT- Where an individual fails to accept a
 reasonable offer of employment in fulfillment of such obligated service or
 unreasonably terminates or fails to perform the duties of such employment,
 the Secretary shall require a repayment of the financial assistance provided,
 prorated for the amount of time of obligated service performed, together
 with interest on such amount which would be payable if at the time the
 amounts were paid they were loans bearing interest at the maximum legal
 prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of the United States.
SEC. 318. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this title.
SEC. 319. REGULATIONS.
 Except as otherwise provided by this title, the Secretary is directed
 to promulgate final regulations for the implementation of the title
 within eighteen months from the date of its enactment. All regulations
 promulgated pursuant to this title shall be developed by the Secretary with
 the participation of the affected Indian tribes.
SEC. 320. SEVERABILITY.
 If any provision of this title, or the application of any provision of this
 title to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the application of
 such provision or circumstance and the remainder of this title shall not
 be affected thereby.
SEC. 321. TRUST RESPONSIBILITY.
 Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish or expand the trust
 responsibility of the United States toward Indian forest lands, or any
 legal obligation or remedy resulting therefrom.
TITLE IV--INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Indian Child Protection and Family Violence
 Prevention Act'.
SEC. 402. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress, after careful review of the problem of child
 abuse on Indian reservations and the historical and special relationship
 of the Federal Government with Indian people,
 (1) finds that--
 (A) incidents of abuse of children on Indian reservations are grossly
 underreported;
 (B) such underreporting is often a result of the lack of a mandatory Federal
 reporting law;
 (C) multiple incidents of sexual abuse of children on Indian reservations
 have been perpetrated by persons employed or funded by the Federal Government;
 (D) Federal Government investigations of the background of Federal employees
 who care for, or teach, Indian children are often deficient;
 (E) funds spent by the United States on Indian reservations or otherwise
 spent for the benefit of Indians who are victims of child abuse or family
 violence are inadequate to meet the growing needs for mental health treatment
 and counseling for victims of child abuse or family violence and their
 families; and
 (F) there is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and
 integrity of Indian tribes than their children and the United States has a
 direct interest, as trustee, in protecting Indian children who are members
 of, or are eligible for membership in, an Indian tribe; and
 (2) declares that two major goals of the United States are to--
 (A) identify the scope of incidents of abuse of children and family violence
 in Indian country and to reduce such incidents; and
 (B) provide funds for mental health treatment for Indian victims of child
 abuse and family violence on Indian reservations.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purposes of this title are to--
 (1) require that reports of abused Indian children are made to the appropriate
 authorities in an effort to prevent further abuse;
 (2) establish a reliable data base for statistical purposes and to authorize
 a study to determine the need for a central registry for reported incidents
 of abuse;
 (3) authorize such other actions as are necessary to ensure effective child
 protection in Indian country;
 (4) establish the Indian Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Grant Program
 to provide funds for the establishment on Indian reservations of treatment
 programs for victims of child sexual abuse;
 (5) provide for technical assistance and training related to the investigation
 and treatment of cases of child abuse and neglect;
 (6) establish Indian Child Resource and Family Services Centers in each Bureau
 of Indian Affairs Area Office which will consist of multi-disciplinary teams
 of personnel with experience and training in the prevention, identification,
 investigation, and treatment of child abuse and neglect;
 (7) provide for the treatment and prevention of incidents of family violence;
 (8) establish tribally operated programs to protect Indian children and
 reduce the incidents of family violence in Indian country; and
 (9) authorize other actions necessary to ensure effective child protection
 on Indian reservations.
SEC. 403. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this title, the term--
 (1) `Bureau' means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the
 Interior;
 (2) `child' means an individual who--
 (A) is not married, and
 (B) has not attained 18 years of age;
 (3) `child abuse' includes but is not limited to--
 (A) any case in which--
 (i) a child is dead or exhibits evidence of skin bruising, bleeding,
 malnutrition, failure to thrive, burns, fracture of any bone, subdural
 hematoma, soft tissue swelling, and
 (ii) such condition is not justifiably explained or may not be the product
 of an accidental occurrence; and
 (B) any case in which a child is subjected to sexual assault, sexual
 molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact, or prostitution;
 (4) `child neglect' includes but is not limited to, negligent treatment or
 maltreatment of a child by a person, including a person responsible for
 the child's welfare, under circumstances which indicate that the child's
 health or welfare is harmed or threatened thereby;
 (5) `family violence' means any act, or threatened act, of violence,
 including any forceful detention of an individual, which--
 (A) results, or threatens to result, in physical or mental injury, and
 (B) is committed by an individual against another individual--
 (i) to whom such person is, or was, related by blood or marriage or otherwise
 legally related, or
 (ii) with whom such person is, or was, residing;
 (6) `Indian' means any individual who is a member of an Indian tribe;
 (7) `Indian child' has the meaning given to such term by section 4(4)
 of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1903(4));
 (8) `Indian country' has the meaning given to such term by section 1151 of
 title 18, United States Code;
 (9) `Indian reservation' means any Indian reservation, public domain
 Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, or lands held by
 incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, or village corporations
 under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.);
 (10) `Indian tribe' and `tribal organization' have the respective meanings
 given to each of such terms under section 4 of the Indian Self Determination
 and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b);
 (11) `inter-tribal consortium' means a partnership between--
 (A) an Indian tribe or tribal organization of an Indian tribe, and
 (B) one or more Indian tribes or tribal organizations of one or more other
 Indian tribes;
 (12) `local child protective services agency' means that agency of the
 Federal Government, of a State, or of an Indian tribe that has the primary
 responsibility for child protection on any Indian reservation or within
 any community in Indian country;
 (13) `local law enforcement agency' means that Federal, tribal, or State law
 enforcement agency that has the primary responsibility for the investigation
 of an instance of alleged child abuse within the portion of Indian country
 involved;
 (14) `persons responsible for a child's welfare' means any person who has
 legal or other recognized duty for the care and safety of a child, including--
 (A) any employee or volunteer of a children's residential facility, and
 (B) any person providing out-of-home care, education, or services to children;
 (15) `related assistance'--
 (A) includes counseling and self-help services to abusers, victims, and
 dependents in family violence situations (which shall include counseling
 of all family members to the extent feasible) and referrals for appropriate
 health-care services (including alcohol and drug abuse treatment), and
 (B) may include food, clothing, child care, transportation, and emergency
 services for victims of family violence and their dependents;
 (16) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
 (17) `shelter' means the provision of temporary refuge and related assistance
 in compliance with applicable Federal and tribal laws and regulations
 governing the provision, on a regular basis, of shelter, safe homes, meals,
 and related assistance to victims of family violence or their dependents; and
 (18) `Service' means the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health
 and Human Services.
SEC. 404. REPORTING PROCEDURES.
 (a) REPORT TO LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY- (1) Chapter 53 of title 18,
 United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
 new section:
`Sec. 1169. Reporting of child abuse
 `(a) Any person who--
 `(1) is a--
 `(A) physician, surgeon, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, nurse, dental
 hygienist, optometrist, medical examiner, emergency medical technician,
 paramedic, or health care provider,
 `(B) teacher, school counselor, instructional aide, teacher's aide,
 teacher's assistant, or bus driver employed by any tribal, Federal, public
 or private school,
 `(C) administrative officer, supervisor of child welfare and attendance,
 or truancy officer of any tribal, Federal, public or private school,
 `(D) child day care worker, headstart teacher, public assistance worker,
 worker in a group home or residential or day care facility, or social worker,
 `(E) psychiatrist, psychologist, or psychological assistant,
 `(F) licensed or unlicensed marriage, family, or child counselor,
 `(G) person employed in the mental health profession, or
 `(H) law enforcement officer, probation officer, worker in a juvenile
 rehabilitation or detention facility, or person employed in a public agency
 who is responsible for enforcing statutes and judicial orders;
 `(2) knows, or has reasonable suspicion, that--
 `(A) a child was abused in Indian country, or
 `(B) actions are being taken, or are going to be taken, that would reasonably
 be expected to result in abuse of a child in Indian country; and
 `(3) fails to immediately report such abuse or actions described in paragraph
 (2) to the local child protective services agency or local law enforcement
 agency,
shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months
or both.
 `(b) Any person who--
 `(1) supervises, or has authority over, a person described in subsection
 (a)(1), and
 `(2) inhibits or prevents that person from making the report described in
 subsection (a),
shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months
or both.
 `(c) For purposes of this section, the term--
 `(1) `abuse' includes--
 `(A) any case in which--
 `(i) a child is dead or exhibits evidence of skin bruising, bleeding,
 malnutrition, failure to thrive, burns, fracture of any bone, subdural
 hematoma, soft tissue swelling, and
 `(ii) such condition is not justifiably explained or may not be the product
 of an accidental occurrence; and
 `(B) any case in which a child is subjected to sexual assault, sexual
 molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact, or prostitution;
 `(2) `child' means an individual who--
 `(A) is not married, and
 `(B) has not attained 18 years of age;
 `(3) `local child protective services agency' means that agency of the
 Federal Government, of a State, or of an Indian tribe that has the primary
 responsibility for child protection on any Indian reservation or within
 any community in Indian country; and
 `(4) `local law enforcement agency' means that Federal, tribal, or State law
 enforcement agency that has the primary responsibility for the investigation
 of an instance of alleged child abuse within the portion of Indian country
 involved.
 `(d) Any person making a report described in subsection (a) which is based
 upon their reasonable belief and which is made in good faith shall be immune
 from civil or criminal liability for making that report.'.
 (2) The table of contents for chapter 53 of title 18, United States Code,
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`1169. Reporting of child abuse.'.
 (b) NOTIFICATION OF CHILD ABUSE REPORTS- (1) When a local law enforcement
 agency or local child protective services agency receives an initial report
 from any person of--
 (A) the abuse of a child in Indian country, or
 (B) actions which would reasonably be expected to result in abuse of a child
 in Indian country, the receiving agency shall immediately notify appropriate
 officials of the other agency of such report and shall also submit, when
 prepared, a copy of the written report required under subsection (c) to
 such agency.
 (2) Where a report of abuse involves an Indian child or where the alleged
 abuser is an Indian and where a preliminary inquiry indicates a criminal
 violation has occurred, the local law enforcement agency, if other than the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall immediately report such occurrence
 to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 (c) WRITTEN REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE- (1) Within 36 hours after receiving
 an initial report described in subsection (b), the receiving agency shall
 prepare a written report which shall include, if available--
 (A) the name, address, age, and sex of the child that is the subject of
 the report;
 (B) the grade and the school in which the child is currently enrolled;
 (C) the name and address of the child's parents or other person responsible
 for the child's care;
 (D) the name and address of the alleged offender;
 (E) the name and address of the person who made the report to the agency;
 (F) a brief narrative as to the nature and extent of the child's injuries,
 including any previously known or suspected abuse of the child or the
 child's siblings and the suspected date of the abuse; and
 (G) any other information the agency or the person who made the report to
 the agency believes to be important to the investigation and disposition
 of the alleged abuse.
 (2)(A) Any local law enforcement agency or local child protective services
 agency that receives a report alleging abuse described in section 503(3)
 shall immediately initiate an investigation of such allegation and shall
 take immediate, appropriate steps to secure the safety and well-being of
 the child or children involved.
 (B) Upon completion of the investigation of any report of alleged abuse that
 is made to a local law enforcement agency or local child protective services
 agency, such agency shall prepare a final written report on such allegation.
 (d) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMANT- The identity of any person making a report
 described in subsection (b)(1) shall not be disclosed, without the consent of
 the individual, to any person other than a court of competent jurisdiction
 or an employee of an Indian tribe, a State or the Federal Government who
 needs to know the information in the performance of such employee's duties.
SEC. 405. CENTRAL REGISTRY.
 (a) PREPARATION OF STUDY- The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of
 Health and Human Services and the Attorney General of the United States, is
 hereby authorized and directed to prepare a written study on the feasibility
 of, and need for, the establishment of a Central Register for reports or
 information on the abuse of children in Indian country.
 (b) CONTENT OF STUDY- The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall
 include, but shall not be limited to--
 (1) the need for, and purpose of, a Central Register;
 (2) the examination of due process implication of the maintenance of such
 a register;
 (3) the extension of access to information contained in the register;
 (4) the need and process for expunging information from the register;
 (5) the types, and duration of maintenance, of information in the register;
 and
 (6) the classes of persons who should be covered by such register.
 (c) The Secretary shall complete the study conducted pursuant to this
 section and shall submit such study, together with recommendations and draft
 legislation to implement such recommendations, to the Congress within 180
 days after the date of enactment of this title.
SEC. 406. CONFIDENTIALITY.
 Pursuant to section 552a of title 5, United States Code, the Family
 Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. 1232g), or any other
 provision of law, agencies of any Indian tribe, of any State, or of the
 Federal Government that investigate and treat incidents of abuse of children
 may provide information and records to those agencies of any Indian tribe,
 any State, or the Federal Government that need to know the information in
 performance of their duties. For purposes of this section, Indian tribal
 governments shall be treated the same as other Federal Government entities.
SEC. 407. WAIVER OF PARENTAL CONSENT.
 (a) EXAMINATIONS AND INTERVIEWS- Photographs, x-rays, medical examinations,
 psychological examinations, and interviews of an Indian child alleged
 to have been subject to abuse in Indian country shall be allowed without
 parental consent if local child protective services or local law enforcement
 officials have reason to believe the child has been subject to abuse.
 (b) INTERVIEWS BY LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES OFFICIALS-
 In any case in which officials of the local law enforcement agency or local
 child protective services agency have reason to believe that an Indian
 child has been subject to abuse in Indian country, the officials of those
 agencies shall be allowed to interview the child without first obtaining
 the consent of the parent, guardian, or legal custodian.
 (c) PROTECTION OF CHILD- Examinations and interviews of a child who may
 have been the subject of abuse shall be conducted under such circumstances
 and with such safeguards as are designed to minimize additional trauma to
 the child and, where time permits, shall be conducted with the advise, or
 under the guidance, of a local multidisciplinary team established pursuant
 to section 411 or, in the absence of a local team, a multidisciplinary team
 established pursuant to section 410.
 (d) COURT ORDERS- Upon a finding of reasonable suspicion that an Indian
 child has been the subject of abuse in Indian country, a Federal magistrate
 or United States District Court may issue an order enforcing any provision
 of this section.
SEC. 408. CHARACTER INVESTIGATIONS.
 (a) BY SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR AND THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
 SERVICES- The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall--
 (1) compile a list of all authorized positions within their respective
 departments the duties and responsibilities of which involve regular contact
 with, or control over, Indian children,
 (2) conduct an investigation of the character of each individual who is
 employed, or is being considered for employment, by the respective Secretary
 in a position listed pursuant to paragraph (1), and
 (3) prescribe by regulations minimum standards of character that each of
 such individuals must meet to be appointed to such positions.
 (b) CRIMINAL RECORDS- The minimum standards of character that are to be
 prescribed under this section shall ensure that none of the individuals
 appointed to positions described in subsection (a) have been found guilty
 of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere or guilty to, any offense under
 Federal, State, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault,
 molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons.
 (c) INVESTIGATIONS BY INDIAN TRIBES AND TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS- Each
 Indian tribe or tribal organization that receives funds under the Indian
 Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the Tribally Controlled
 Schools Act of 1988 shall--
 (1) conduct an investigation of the character of each individual who is
 employed, or is being considered for employment, by such tribe or tribal
 organization in a position that involves regular contact with, or control
 over, Indian children, and
 (2) employ individuals in those positions only if the individuals meet
 standards of character, no less stringent than those prescribed under
 subsection (a), as the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall establish.
SEC. 409. INDIAN CHILD ABUSE TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANT PROGRAM- The Secretary of Health and Human
 Services, acting through the Service and in cooperation with the Bureau,
 shall establish an Indian Child Abuse Treatment Grant Program that provides
 grants to any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium for the establishment
 on Indian reservations of treatment programs for Indians who have been
 victims of child sexual abuse.
 (b) GRANT APPLICATIONS- (1) Any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium may
 submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services an application for a
 grant under subsection (a).
 (2) Any application submitted under paragraph (1)--
 (A) shall be in such form as the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 may prescribe;
 (B) shall be submitted to such Secretary on or before the date designated
 by such Secretary; and
 (C) shall specify--
 (i) the nature of the program proposed by the applicant,
 (ii) the data and information on which the program is based,
 (iii) the extent to which the program plans to use or incorporate existing
 services available on the reservation, and
 (iv) the specific treatment concepts to be used under the program.
 (c) MAXIMUM GRANT AMOUNT- The maximum amount of any grant awarded under
 subsection (a) shall not exceed $500,000.
 (d) GRANT ADMINISTRATION AND FINAL REPORT- Each recipient of a grant awarded
 under subsection (a) shall--
 (1) furnish the Secretary of Health and Human Services with such information
 as such Secretary may require to--
 (A) evaluate the program for which the grant is made, and
 (B) ensure that the grant funds are expended for the purposes for which
 the grant was made, and
 (2) submit to such Secretary at the close of the term of the grant a final
 report which shall include such information as the Secretary may require.
 (e) there is hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions
 of this section $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994,
 and 1995.
SEC. 410. INDIAN CHILD RESOURCE AND FAMILY SERVICES CENTERS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish within each area office
 of the Bureau an Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center.
 (b) MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT- The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement which provides
 for the staffing of the Centers established under this section.
 (c) CENTER STAFFING- Each Center established under subsection (a) shall
 be staffed by a multidisciplinary team of personnel with experience and
 training in prevention, identification, investigation, and treatment of
 incidents of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.
 (d) CENTER RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS- Each Center established under
 subsection (a) shall--
 (1) provide advice, technical assistance, and consultation to Indian tribes,
 tribal organizations, and inter-tribal consortia upon request;
 (2) provide training to appropriate personnel of Indian tribes, tribal
 organizations, the Bureau and the Service on the identification and
 investigation of cases of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect and,
 to the extent practicable, coordinate with institutions of higher education,
 including tribally controlled community colleges, to offer college-level
 credit to interested trainees;
 (3) develop training materials on the prevention, identification,
 investigation, and treatment of incidents of family violence, child abuse, and
 child neglect for distribution to Indian tribes and to tribal organizations;
 (4) develop recommendations to assist Federal and tribal personnel to
 respond to cases of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect; and
 (5) develop policies and procedures for each agency office of the Bureau and
 service unit of the Service within the area which, to the extent feasible,
 comply with tribal laws pertaining to cases of family violence, child
 abuse, and child neglect, including any criminal laws, and which provide
 for maximum cooperation with the enforcement of such laws.
 (e) MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAM PERSONNEL- Each multidisciplinary team established
 under this section shall include, but is not limited to, personnel with a
 background in--
 (1) law enforcement,
 (2) child protective services,
 (3) juvenile counseling and adolescent mental health, and
 (4) domestic violence.
 (f) CENTER ADVISORY BOARD- The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services, shall establish, for each Indian Child Resource
 and Family Services Center, an advisory board to advise and assist such
 Center in carrying out its activities under this Act. Each advisory board
 shall consist of 7 members appointed by the Secretary from Indian tribes
 and human service providers served by an area office of the Bureau. Members
 shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for travel and other
 expenses while carrying out the duties of the board. The advisory board shall
 assist the Center in coordinating programs, identifying training materials,
 and developing policies and procedures relating to family violence, child
 abuse, and child neglect.
 (g) APPLICATION OF THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION ACT TO CENTERS- Indian
 Child Resource and Family Services Centers established under subsection (a)
 shall be subject to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act. If
 a Center is located in an area office of the Bureau which serves more than
 one Indian tribe, any application to enter into a contract to operate the
 Center pursuant to such Act must have the consent of each of the other
 tribes to be served under the contract, except that, in the Juneau Area,
 only the consent of such tribes or tribal consortia that are engaged in
 contracting of Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention
 programs pursuant to such Act shall be required. This section shall not
 preclude the designation of an existing child resource and family services
 center operated by a tribe or tribal organization as a Center if all of
 the tribes to be served by the Center agree to such designation.
 (h) APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
 the provisions of this section $3,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992,
 1993, 1994, and 1995.
SEC. 411. INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish within the Bureau an Indian
 Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program to provide financial
 assistance to any Indian tribe, tribal organization, or inter-tribal
 consortium for the development of an Indian Child Protection and Family
 Violence Prevention program.
 (b) INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION ACT AGREEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized
 to enter into agreements with Indian tribes, tribal organizations, or
 inter-tribal consortia pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act for
 the establishment of Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention
 programs on Indian reservations.
 (c) INVESTIGATION AND TREATMENT AND PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE AND FAMILY
 VIOLENCE- An Indian tribe operating an Indian Child Protection and Family
 Violence Prevention program established under this section shall designate
 the agency or officials which shall be responsible--
 (1) for the investigation of reported cases of child abuse and child
 neglect; and
 (2) for the treatment and prevention of incidents of family violence; and
 (3) for the provision of immediate shelter and related assistance for
 victims of family violence and their dependents.
 (d) PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS- Funds provided pursuant to this
 section may be used for--
 (1) the establishment of a child protective services program which may
 include--
 (A) the employment of child protective services staff to investigate cases
 of child abuse and child neglect,
 (B) training programs for child protective services personnel, law enforcement
 personnel, and judicial personnel in the investigation, prevention, and
 treatment of cases of child abuse and child neglect, and
 (C) purchase of equipment to assist in the investigation of cases of child
 abuse and child neglect;
 (2) the establishment of a family violence prevention and treatment program
 which may include--
 (A) the employment of family violence prevention and treatment staff to
 respond to incidents of family violence,
 (B) the provision of immediate shelter and related assistance for victims
 of family violence and their dependents,
 (C) training programs for family violence prevention and treatment personnel,
 law enforcement personnel, and judicial personnel in the investigation,
 prevention, and treatment of cases of family violence; and
 (D) construction or renovation of facilities for the establishment of family
 violence shelters;
 (3) the development and implementation of a multidisciplinary child abuse
 investigation and prosecution program which may--
 (A) coordinate child abuse prevention, investigation, prosecution, treatment,
 and counseling services,
 (B) develop protocols among related agencies to ensure that investigations
 of child abuse cases, to the extent practicable, minimize the trauma to
 the child victim, and
 (C) provide for the coordination and cooperation of law enforcement agencies,
 courts of competent jurisdiction, and other tribal, Federal, and State
 agencies through intergovernmental or interagency agreements that define
 and specify each party's responsibilities;
 (4) the development of tribal child protection codes and regulations;
 (5) the establishment of training programs for--
 (A) professional and paraprofessional personnel in the fields of medicine,
 law, education, social work, and other relevant fields who are engaged in,
 or intend to work in, the field of prevention, identification, investigation,
 and treatment of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect,
 (B) instruction in methods of protecting children from abuse and neglect for
 persons responsible for the welfare of Indian children, including parents
 of, and persons who work with, Indian children, or
 (C) educational, identification, prevention and treatment services for
 child abuse and child neglect in cooperation with preschool, elementary
 and secondary schools, or tribally controlled community colleges (within
 the meaning of section 2 of the Tribally Controlled Community College Act
 of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801));
 (6) other community education efforts for tribal members (including school
 children) regarding issues of family violence, child abuse, and child
 neglect; and
 (7) such other innovative and culturally relevant programs and projects as
 the Secretary may approve, including programs and projects for--
 (A) parental awareness and self-help,
 (B) prevention and treatment of alcohol and drug-related family violence,
 child abuse, and child neglect, or
 (C) home health visitor programs,
that show promise of successfully preventing and treating cases of family
violence, child abuse, and child neglect.
 (f) SECRETARIAL REGULATIONS; BASE SUPPORT FUNDING- (1) The Secretary,
 with the participation of Indian tribes, shall establish, and promulgate
 by regulations, a formula which establishes base support funding for Indian
 Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention programs.
 (2) In the development of regulations for base support funding for such
 programs, the Secretary shall develop, in consultation with Indian tribes,
 appropriate caseload standards and staffing requirements which are comparable
 to standards developed by the National Association of Social Work, the
 Child Welfare League of America and other professional associations in the
 field of social work and child welfare. Each level of funding assistance
 shall correspond to the staffing requirements established by the Secretary
 pursuant to this section.
 (3) Factors to be considered in the development of the base support funding
 formula shall include, but are not limited to--
 (A) projected service population of the program;
 (B) projected service area of the program;
 (C) projected number of cases per month; and
 (D) special circumstances warranting additional program resources, such
 as high incidence of child sexual abuse, high incidence of violent crimes
 against women, or the existence of a significant victim population within
 the community.
 (4) The formula established pursuant to this subsection shall provide
 funding necessary to support--
 (A) one child protective services or family violence caseworker, including
 fringe benefits and support costs, for each tribe; and
 (B) an additional child protective services and family violence caseworker,
 including fringe benefits and support costs, for each level of assistance
 for which an Indian tribe qualifies.
 (5) In any fiscal year that appropriations are not sufficient to fully fund
 Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention programs at each
 level of assistance under the formula required to be established in this
 subsection, available funds for each level of assistance shall be evenly
 divided among the tribes qualifying for that level of assistance.
 (g) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- Services provided under contracts made under
 this section shall supplement, not supplant, services from any other funds
 available for the same general purposes, including, but not limited to--
 (1) treatment, including, but not limited to--
 (A) individual counseling,
 (B) group counseling, and
 (C) family counseling;
 (2) social services and case management;
 (3) training available to Indian tribes, tribal agencies, and Indian
 organizations regarding the identification, investigation, prevention,
 and treatment of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect; and
 (4) law enforcement services, including investigations and prosecutions.
 (h) CONTRACT EVALUATION AND ANNUAL REPORT- Each recipient of funds awarded
 pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
 (1) furnish the Secretary with such information as the Secretary may
 require to--
 (A) evaluate the program for which the award is made, and
 (B) ensure that funds are expended for the purposes for which the award
 was made; and
 (2) submit to the Secretary at the end of each fiscal year an annual report
 which shall include such information as the Secretary may require.
 (i) APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the
 provisions of this section $30,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992,
 1993, 1994, and 1995.
SEC. 412. REPORT.
 On or before March 1, 1991, and March 1 of each calendar year thereafter, the
 Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report involving the administration
 of this title during the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which
 such report is submitted.
TITLE V--INDIAN HEALTH CARE
SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Indian Health Care Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 502. REFERENCES.
 Except as may otherwise be specifically provided, whenever in this title an
 amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of,
 a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made
 to a section or other provision of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act
 (25 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
SEC. 503. MENTAL HEALTH PREVENTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES.
 (a) PURPOSES- The purposes of this section are to--
 (1) authorize and direct the Indian Health Service to develop a comprehensive
 mental health prevention and treatment program;
 (2) provide direction and guidance relating to mental illness and
 dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior, including child abuse and family
 violence, to those Federal, tribal, State, and local agencies responsible
 for programs in Indian communities in areas of health care, education,
 social services, child and family welfare, alcohol and substance abuse,
 law enforcement, and judicial services;
 (3) assist Indian tribes to identify services and resources available to
 address mental illness and dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior;
 (4) provide authority and opportunities for Indian tribes to develop and
 implement, and coordinate with, community-based mental health programs
 which include identification, prevention, education, referral, and treatment
 services, including through multidisciplinary resource teams;
 (5) ensure that Indians, as citizens of the United States and of the States
 in which they reside, have the same access to mental health services to
 which all such citizens have access; and
 (6) modify or supplement existing programs and authorities in the areas
 identified in paragraph (2).
 (b) AMENDMENT- Title II of the Act is amended by adding at the end thereof
 the following new section:
`SEC. 209. MENTAL HEALTH PREVENTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES.
 `(a) NATIONAL PLAN FOR INDIAN MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES- (1) Not later than
 120 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting
 through the Service, shall develop and publish in the Federal Register a final
 national plan for Indian Mental Health Services. The plan shall include--
 `(A) an assessment of the scope of the problem of mental illness and
 dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior, including child abuse and
 family violence, among Indians, including--
 `(i) the number of Indians served by the Service who are directly or
 indirectly affected by such illness or behavior, and
 `(ii) an estimate of the financial and human cost attributable to such
 illness or behavior;
 `(B) an assessment of the existing and additional resources necessary for
 the prevention and treatment of such illness and behavior; and
 `(C) an estimate of the additional funding needed by the Service to meet
 its responsibilities under the plan.
 `(2) The Secretary shall submit a copy of the national plan to the Congress.
 `(c) MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT- Not later than 180 days after the date of
 enactment of this section, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior
 shall develop and enter into a memorandum of agreement under which the
 Secretaries shall, among other things--
 `(1) determine and define the scope and nature of mental illness and
 dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior, including child abuse and
 family violence, among Indians;
 `(2) make an assessment of the existing Federal, tribal, State, local,
 and private services, resources, and programs available to provide mental
 health services for Indians;
 `(3) make an initial determination of the unmet need for additional services,
 resources, and programs necessary to meet the needs identified pursuant to
 paragraph (1);
 `(4)(A) ensure that Indians, as citizens of the United States and of the
 States in which they reside, have access to mental health services to which
 all citizens have access;
 `(B) determine the right of Indians to participate in, and receive the
 benefit of, such services; and
 `(C) take actions necessary to protect the exercise of such right;
 `(5) delineate the responsibilities of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and
 the Service, including mental health identification, prevention, education,
 referral, and treatment services (including services through multidisciplinary
 resource teams), at the central, area, and agency and service unit levels
 to address the problems identified in paragraph (1);
 `(6) provide a strategy for the comprehensive coordination of the mental
 health services provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service
 to meet the needs identified pursuant to paragraph (1), including--
 `(A) the coordination of alcohol and substance abuse programs of the Service,
 the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the various tribes (developed under the
 Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986)
 with the mental health initiatives pursuant to this Act, particularly
 with respect to the referral and treatment of dually-diagnosed individuals
 requiring mental health and substance abuse treatment; and
 `(B) ensuring that Bureau of Indian Affairs and Service programs and services
 (including multidisciplinary resource teams) addressing child abuse and
 family violence are coordinated with such non-Federal programs and services;
 `(7) direct appropriate officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the
 Service, particularly at the agency and service unit levels, to cooperate
 fully with tribal requests made pursuant to subsection (d); and
 `(8) provide for an annual review of such agreement by the two Secretaries.
 `(d) COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PLAN- (1) The governing body of any Indian
 tribe may, at its discretion, adopt a resolution for the establishment
 of a community mental health plan providing for the identification and
 coordination of available resources and programs to identify, prevent,
 or treat mental illness or dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior,
 including child abuse and family violence, among its members.
 `(2) In furtherance of a plan established pursuant to paragraph (1) and
 at the request of a tribe, the appropriate agency, service unit, or other
 officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service shall cooperate
 with, and provide technical assistance to, the tribe in the development
 of such plan. Upon the establishment of such a plan and at the request
 of the tribe, such officials, as directed by the memorandum of agreement
 developed pursuant to subsection (c), shall cooperate with the tribe in
 the implementation of such plan.
 `(3) Two or more Indian tribes may form a coalition for the adoption of
 resolutions and the establishment and development of a joint community
 mental health plan under this subsection.
 `(4) The Secretary, acting through the Service, may make grants to Indian
 tribes adopting a resolution pursuant to paragraph (1) to obtain technical
 assistance for the development of a community mental health plan and to
 provide administrative support in the implementation of such plan.
 `(5) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year
 1991 and $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out this subsection.
 `(e) MENTAL HEALTH TRAINING AND COMMUNITY EDUCATION PROGRAMS- (1)
 The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with
 representatives of Indian tribes, shall conduct a study and compile a list, of
 the types of staff positions specified in paragraph (2) whose qualifications
 include, or should include, training in the identification, prevention,
 education, referral, or treatment of mental illness or dysfunctional and
 self-destructive behavior.
 `(2) The positions referred to in paragraph (1) are--
 `(A) staff positions within the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including existing
 positions, in the fields of--
 `(i) elementary and secondary education;
 `(ii) social services and family and child welfare;
 `(iii) law enforcement and judicial services; and
 `(iv) alcohol and substance abuse;
 `(B) staff positions with the Service; and
 `(C) staff positions similar to those identified in subparagraphs (A)
 and (B) established and maintained by Indian tribes, including positions
 established in contracts entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act.
 `(3)(A) The appropriate Secretary shall provide training criteria appropriate
 to each type of position identified in paragraph (2)(A) and ensure that
 appropriate training has been, or will be, provided to any individual in any
 such position. With respect to any such individual in a position identified
 pursuant to paragraph (2)(C), the respective Secretaries shall provide
 appropriate training to, or provide funds to an Indian tribe for the training
 of, such individual. In the case of positions funded under a contract entered
 into under the Indian Self-Determination Act, the appropriate Secretary shall
 ensure that such training costs are included in the contract, if necessary.
 `(B) Funds authorized to be appropriated pursuant to this subsection may
 be used to provide training authorized by this paragraph for community
 education programs described in paragraph (5) if a plan adopted pursuant
 to subsection (d) identifies individuals or employment categories, other
 than those identified pursuant to paragraph (1), for which such training
 or community education is deemed necessary or desirable.
 `(4) Position-specific training criteria described in paragraph (3) shall
 be culturally relevant to Indians and Indian tribes and shall ensure that
 appropriate information regarding traditional Indian healing and treatment
 practices is provided.
 `(5) The Service shall develop and implement or, upon the request of an
 Indian tribe, assist such tribe to develop and implement, a program of
 community education on mental illness and dysfunctional and self-destructive
 behavior for individuals, as determined in a plan adopted pursuant to
 subsection (d). In carrying out this paragraph, the Service shall provide,
 upon the request of an Indian tribe, technical assistance to the Indian
 tribe to obtain or develop community education and training materials on
 the identification, prevention, referral, and treatment of mental illness
 and dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior.
 `(6) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated--
 `(A) $500,000 for fiscal year 1991 to carry out this subsection, of which
 $100,000 shall be allocated for community education under paragraph (5); and
 `(B) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out this subsection, of which
 $1,200,000 shall be allocated for community education under paragraph (5).
 `(f) STAFFING- (1) Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this section,
 the Secretary shall develop a plan under which the Service will increase
 the health care staff providing mental health services by at least 500
 positions within five years after the date of enactment of this section,
 with at least 200 of such positions devoted to child, adolescent, and
 family services. Such additional staff shall be primarily assigned to the
 service unit level for services which shall include outpatient, emergency,
 aftercare and follow-up, and prevention and education services.
 `(2) The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall be implemented under the
 Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13) popularly known as the `Snyder Act'.
 `(g) STAFF RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION- (1) The Secretary shall provide
 for the recruitment of the additional personnel required by subsection
 (f) and the retention of all Service personnel providing mental health
 services. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority
 to practitioners providing mental health services to children and adolescents
 with mental health problems.
 `(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall develop a program
 providing for--
 `(A) the payment of bonuses (which shall not be more favorable than those
 provided for under sections 116 and 117) for service in hardship posts;
 `(B) the repayment of loans (for which the provisions of repayment contracts
 shall not be more favorable than the repayment contracts under section 108)
 for health professions education as a recruitment incentive; and
 `(C) a system of postgraduate rotations as a retention incentive.
 `(3) This subsection shall be carried out in coordination with the recruitment
 and retention programs under title I.
 `(4) There are authorized to be appropriated $1,200,000 for the fiscal year
 1992 to carrying out this subsection.
 `(h) MENTAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN PROGRAM- (1) Under the authority of the Snyder
 Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Secretary shall establish and
 maintain a Mental Health Technician program within the Service which--
 `(A) provides for the training of Indians as mental health technicians; and
 `(B) employs such technicians in the provision of community-based mental
 health care that includes identification, prevention, education, referral,
 and treatment services.
 `(2) In carrying out paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall provide high
 standard paraprofessional training in mental health care necessary to provide
 quality care to the Indian communities to be served. Such training shall
 be based upon a curriculum developed or approved by the Secretary which
 combines education in the theory of mental health care with supervised
 practical experience in the provision of such care.
 `(3) The Secretary shall supervise and evaluate the mental health technicians
 in the training program.
 `(4) The Secretary shall ensure that the program established pursuant to
 this subsection involves the utilization and promotion of the traditional
 Indian health care and treatment practices of the Indian tribes to be served.
 `(5) For purposes of providing the training required under this subsection,
 there are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for the fiscal year 1992,
 which shall remain available until expended.
 `(i) MENTAL HEALTH RESEARCH- (1) The Secretary, acting through the Service
 and in consultation with the National Institute of Mental Health, shall
 enter into contracts with, or make grants to, appropriate institutions for
 the conduct of research on the incidence and prevalence of mental disorders
 among Indians on Indian reservations and in urban areas. Research priorities
 under this subsection shall include--
 `(A) the inter-relationship and inter-dependence of mental disorders with
 alcoholism, suicide, homicides, accidents, and the incidence of family
 violence, and
 `(B) the development of models of prevention techniques.
The effect of the inter-relationships and interdependencies referred to in
subparagraph (A) on children, and the development of prevention techniques
under subparagraph (B) applicable to children, shall be emphasized.
 `(2) For purposes of carrying out this subsection, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $2,000,000 for the fiscal year 1992, which shall remain
 available until expended.
 `(j) FACILITIES ASSESSMENT- (1) Within one year after the date of enactment
 of this section, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make an
 assessment of the need for inpatient mental health care among Indians and
 the availability and cost of inpatient mental health facilities which can
 meet such need. In making such assessment, the Secretary shall consider the
 possible conversion of existing, under-utilized service hospital beds into
 psychiatric units to meet such need.
 `(2) There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for the fiscal year
 1992 to make the assessment required by this subsection.
 `(k) ANNUAL REPORT- The Service shall develop methods for analyzing and
 evaluating the overall status of mental health programs and services for
 Indians and shall submit to the Congress an annual report on the mental
 health status of Indians which shall describe the progress being made to
 address mental health problems of Indian communities.
 `(l) MENTAL HEALTH DEMONSTRATION GRANT PROGRAM- (1) The Secretary, acting
 through the Service, is authorized to make grants to Indian tribes and
 inter-tribal consortia to pay 75 percent of the cost of planning, developing,
 and implementing programs to deliver innovative community-based mental
 health services to Indians. The 25 percent tribal share of such cost may
 be provided in cash or through the provision of property or services.
 `(2) The Secretary may award a grant for a project under paragraph (1) to
 an Indian tribe or inter-tribal consortium which meets the following criteria:
 `(A) The project will address significant unmet mental health needs among
 Indians.
 `(B) The project will serve a significant number of Indians.
 `(C) The project has the potential to deliver services in an efficient and
 effective manner.
 `(D) The tribe or consortium has the administrative and financial capability
 to administer the project.
 `(E) The project will deliver services in a manner consistent with traditional
 Indian healing and treatment practices.
 `(F) The project is coordinated with, and avoids duplication of, existing
 services.
 `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall, in evaluating
 applications for grants for projects to be operated under any contract
 entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act,
 use the same criteria that the Secretary uses in evaluating any other
 application for such a grant.
 `(4) The Secretary may only award one grant under this subsection with
 respect to a service area until the Secretary has awarded grants for all
 service areas with respect to which the Secretary receives applications
 during the application period, as determined by the Secretary, which meet
 the criteria specified in paragraph (2).
 `(5) Not later than 180 days after the close of the term of the last
 grant awarded pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall submit
 to the Congress a report evaluating the effectiveness of the innovative
 community-based projects demonstrated pursuant to this subsection. Such
 report shall include findings and recommendations, if any, relating to the
 reorganization of the programs of the Service for delivery of mental health
 services to Indians.
 `(6) There is authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fiscal year
 1991 and $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out the purposes of this
 subsection. Grants made pursuant to this subsection may be expended over
 a period of three years and no grant may exceed $1,000,000 for the fiscal
 years involved.'.
SEC. 504. HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
 Title III of the Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
 new section 307:
`SEC. 307. INDIAN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
 `(a) HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS- The Secretary, acting
 through the Service, is authorized to enter into contracts with, or make
 grants to, Indian tribes or tribal organizations for the purpose of carrying
 out a health care delivery demonstration project to test alternative means
 of delivering health care and services through health facilities to Indians.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- The Secretary, in approving projects pursuant to this
 section, may authorize funding for the construction and renovation of
 hospitals, health centers, health stations, and other facilities to deliver
 health care services and is authorized to--
 `(1) waive any leasing prohibition;
 `(2) permit carryover of funds appropriated for the provision of health
 care services;
 `(3) permit the use of non-Service Federal funds and non-Federal funds;
 `(4) permit the use of funds or property donated from any source for project
 purposes; and
 `(5) provide for the reversion of donated real or personal property to
 the donor.
 `(c) CRITERIA- (1) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this
 section, the Secretary, after consultation with Indian tribes and tribal
 organizations, shall develop and publish in the Federal Register criteria for
 the review and approval of applications submitted under this section. The
 Secretary may enter into a contract or award a grant under this section
 for projects which meet the following criteria:
 `(A) There is a need for a new facility or the reorientation of an existing
 facility.
 `(B) A significant number of Indians, including those with low health status,
 will be served by the project.
 `(C) The project has the potential to address the health needs of Indians
 in an innovative manner.
 `(D) The project has the potential to deliver services in an efficient and
 effective manner.
 `(E) The project is economically viable.
 `(F) The Indian tribe or tribal organization has the administrative and
 financial capability to administer the project.
 `(G) The project is integrated with providers of related health and social
 services and is coordinated with, and avoids duplication of, existing
 services.
 `(2) The Secretary may provide for the establishment of peer review panels,
 as necessary, to review and evaluate applications and to advise the Secretary
 regarding such applications using the criteria developed pursuant to paragraph
 (1).
 `(3)(A) The Secretary shall enter into contracts or award grants under this
 section for a demonstration project in each of the following service units
 which meets the criteria specified in paragraph (1):
 `(i) Cass Lake, Minnesota.
 `(ii) Clinton, Oklahoma.
 `(iii) Harlem, Montana.
 `(iv) Mescalero, New Mexico.
 `(v) Owyhee, Nevada.
 `(vi) Parker, Arizona.
 `(vii) Schurz, Nevada.
 `(viii) Winnebago, Nebraska.
 `(ix) Ft. Yuma, California.
 `(B) After entering into contracts or awarding grants in accordance with
 subparagraph (A), and taking into account contracts entered into and
 grants awarded under such subparagraph, the Secretary may only enter into
 one contract or award one grant under this subsection with respect to a
 service area until the Secretary has entered into contracts or awarded
 grants for all service areas with respect to which the Secretary receives
 applications during the application period, as determined by the Secretary,
 which meet the criteria developed under paragraph (1).
 `(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary shall provide such technical and
 other assistance as may be necessary to enable applicants to comply with
 the provisions of this section.
 `(e) SERVICE TO INELIGIBLE PERSONS- The authority to provide services to
 persons otherwise ineligible for the health care benefits of the Service
 and the authority to extend hospital privileges in service facilities
 to non-Service health care practitioners as provided in section 713 may
 be included, subject to the terms of such section, in any demonstration
 project approved pursuant to this section.
 `(f) EQUITABLE TREATMENT- For purposes of subsection (c)(1)(A), the
 Secretary shall, in evaluating facilities operated under any contract
 entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act,
 use the same criteria that the Secretary uses in evaluating facilities
 operated directly by the Service.
 `(g) EQUITABLE INTEGRATION OF FACILITIES- The Secretary shall ensure
 that the planning, design, construction, and renovation needs of Service
 and non-Service facilities which are the subject of a contract for health
 services entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination
 Act, are fully and equitably integrated into the implementation of the
 health care delivery demonstration projects under this section.
 `(h) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within 90 days after the end of the period set
 out in subsection (a), the Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress
 a report, together with legislative recommendations, on the findings and
 conclusions derived from the demonstration projects.
 `(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1991 and 1992 for the purpose
 of carrying out this section, which are authorized to remain available
 until expended.'.
SEC. 505. HEALTH CARE SERVICES FOR URBAN INDIANS.
 (a) HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION- Section 503 of title V (25
 U.S.C. 1653) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall facilitate access
 to, or provide, health promotion and disease prevention services for urban
 Indians through grants made to urban Indian organizations administering
 contracts entered into pursuant to this section.
 `(2) There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1992
 to carry out this subsection.'.
 (b) IMMUNIZATION- Section 503 of title V, as amended by subsection (a),
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall facilitate access
 to, or provide, immunization services for urban Indians through grants made
 to urban Indian organizations administering contracts entered into pursuant
 to this section.
 `(2) In making any grant to carry out this subsection, the Secretary shall
 take into consideration--
 `(A) the size of the urban Indian population to be served;
 `(B) the immunization levels of the urban Indian population, particularly
 the immunization levels of infants, children, and the elderly;
 `(C) the utilization by the urban Indians of alternative resources from
 State and local governments for no-cost or low-cost immunization services
 to the general population; and
 `(D) the capability of the urban Indian organization to carry out services
 pursuant to this subsection.
 `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `immunization services' means
 services to provide without charge immunizations against vaccine-preventable
 diseases.
 `(4) There are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year
 1992 to carry out this subsection.'.
 (c) MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES- Section 503 of title V, as amended by subsections
 (a) and (b), is further amended by adding at the end the following new
 subsection:
 `(e)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall facilitate access
 to, or provide, mental health services for urban Indians through grants
 made to urban Indian organizations administering contracts entered into
 pursuant to this section.
 `(2) A grant may not be made under this subsection to an urban Indian
 organization until that organization has prepared, and the Service has
 approved, an assessment of the mental health needs of the urban Indian
 population concerned, the mental health services and other related resources
 available to that population, the barriers to obtaining those services and
 resources, and the needs that are unmet by such services and resources.
 `(3) Grants may be made under this subsection--
 `(A) to prepare assessments required under paragraph (2);
 `(B) to provide outreach, educational, and referral services to urban
 Indians regarding the availability of direct mental health services, to
 educate urban Indians about mental health issues and services, and effect
 coordination with existing mental health providers in order to improve
 services to urban Indians;
 `(C) to provide outpatient mental health services to urban Indians, including
 the identification and assessment of illness, therapeutic treatments,
 case management, support groups, family treatment, and other treatment; and
 `(D) to develop innovative mental health service delivery models which
 incorporate Indian cultural support systems and resources.
 `(4) There is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year 1991
 and $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out this subsection.'.
 (d) PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF CHILD ABUSE- Section 503 of title V, as
 amended by subsections (a), (b), and (c), is further amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall facilitate access
 to, or provide, services for urban Indians through grants to urban Indian
 organizations administering contracts entered into pursuant to this section
 to prevent and treat child abuse (including sexual abuse) among urban Indians.
 `(2) A grant may not be made under this subsection to an urban Indian
 organization until that organization has prepared, and the Service has
 approved, an assessment that documents the prevalence of child abuse in the
 urban Indian population concerned and specifies the services and programs
 (which may not duplicate existing services and programs) for which the
 grant is requested.
 `(3) Grants may be made under this subsection--
 `(A) to prepare assessments required under paragraph (2);
 `(B) for the development of prevention, training, and education programs
 for urban Indian populations, including child education, parent education,
 provider training on identification and intervention, education on reporting
 requirements, prevention campaigns, and establishing service networks of
 all those involved in Indian child protection; and
 `(C) to provide direct outpatient treatment services (including individual
 treatment, family treatment, group therapy, and support groups) to urban
 Indians who are child victims of abuse (including sexual abuse) or adult
 survivors of child sexual abuse, to the families of such child victims,
 and to urban Indian perpetrators of child abuse (including sexual abuse).
 `(4) In making grants to carry out this subsection, the Secretary shall
 take into consideration--
 `(A) the support for the urban Indian organization demonstrated by the child
 protection authorities in the area, including committees or other services
 funded under the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.),
 if any;
 `(B) the capability and expertise demonstrated by the urban Indian
 organization to address the complex problem of child sexual abuse in the
 community; and
 `(C) the assessment required under paragraph (2).
 `(5) There is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year 1991
 and $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out this subsection.'.
SEC. 506. FACILITIES ASSESSMENT.
 (a) SURVEY- The Secretary shall conduct a survey of all facilities used
 by contractors under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act and
 shall submit a report to the Congress on such survey not later than one year
 after the date of enactment of this Act. The report shall, at a minimum,
 contain the following information for each location:
 (1) The extent to which the facility meets safety and building codes and,
 if direct care is provided, the extent of compliance with Joint Commission
 for Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JCAHO) standards.
 (2) The extent to which improvements, expansion, or relocation is necessary
 to meet program requirements, provide adequate services, or achieve building
 code compliance.
 (3) Any lease restriction that would hamper accomplishment of needed
 improvement, expansion, or relocation.
 (4) The term of the lease, if appropriate, the age of the structure, and
 the structure's life expectancy with and without improvement.
 (5) An assessment of the deficiencies of the facility.
 (b) REPORT- The report shall contain general recommendations for addressing
 the deficiencies of facilities in which programs funded under title V of the
 Indian Health Care Improvement Act are located and shall propose specific
 policies for accomplishing those recommendations.
 (c) MINOR RENOVATIONS- Title V, as amended by section 301, is further
 amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 409. FACILITIES RENOVATION.
 `The Secretary may make funds available to contractors under this title for
 minor renovations to facilities, including leased facilities, to assist such
 contractors in meeting or maintaining the Joint Commission for Accreditation
 of Health Care Organizations (JCAHO) standards. There is authorized to be
 appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 to carry out this section.'.
SEC. 507. REPORTS.
 Section 507 of title V (25 U.S.C. 1657) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall submit a report
 to the Congress not later than March 31, 1992, evaluating--
 `(A) the health status of urban Indians;
 `(B) the services provided to Indians through this title;
 `(C) areas of unmet needs in urban areas served under this title; and
 `(D) areas of unmet needs in urban areas not served under this title.
 `(2) In preparing the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
 consult with urban Indian health providers and may contract with a national
 organization representing urban Indian health concerns to conduct any aspect
 of the report.
 `(3) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior shall--
 `(A) assess the status of the welfare of urban Indian children, including
 the volume of child protection cases, the prevalence of child sexual abuse,
 and the extent of urban Indian coordination with tribal authorities with
 respect to child sexual abuse; and
 `(B) submit a report on the assessment required under subparagraph (A),
 together with recommended legislation to improve Indian child protection
 in urban Indian populations, to the Congress no later than March 31, 1992.'.
SEC. 508. URBAN HEALTH PROGRAMS BRANCH.
 Title V is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 511. URBAN HEALTH PROGRAMS BRANCH.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established within the Service a Branch
 of Urban Health Programs which shall be responsible for carrying out the
 provisions of this title.
 `(b) STAFF, SERVICES, AND EQUIPMENT- The Secretary shall appoint such
 employees to work in the branch, including a program director, and shall
 provide such services and equipment, as may be necessary for it to carry
 out its responsibilities. The Secretary shall also analyze the need to
 provide at least one urban health program analyst for each area office of
 the Indian Health Service and shall submit his findings to the Congress as
 a part of the Department's fiscal year 1993 budget request.'.
SEC. 509. ALASKA RESIDENTIAL YOUTH TREATMENT CENTER.
 (a) AMENDMENT- Section 4227(b) of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse
 Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2474(b)) is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle, the Secretary may,
 from amounts allocated to the Alaska area from funds appropriated pursuant
 to this section, make funds available to the Tanana Chiefs Conference,
 Incorporated, for the purpose of maintaining a residential youth treatment
 facility in Fairbanks, Alaska.'.
 (b) LEASE OF FACILITIES- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting
 under section 4209(c) and 4227(b) of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse
 Prevention and Treatment Act, may--
 (1) without regard to section 4209(c)(2) of that Act, lease from the Tanana
 Chiefs Conference facilities that are located in Fairbanks, Alaska, and
 that the Tanana Chiefs Conference has leased from another entity, and
 (2) if the Secretary enters into a lease under paragraph (1) for at least
 40 years, renovate the facilities to the extent needed.
 (c) SELF-DETERMINATION CONTRACTS FOR STAFFING AND OPERATION- The Secretary
 of Health and Human Services, acting under section 102 of the Indian
 Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, may contract with the
 Tanana Chiefs Conference to staff and operate the facilities leased under
 subsection (b), without a request of an Indian tribe, and without regard
 to the definition and proviso in section 4(l) of that Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.