 
--H.R.5140--
H.R.5140
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to improve
secondary school programs for basic skills improvement and dropout prevention
and reentry, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `School Dropout Prevention and Basic Skills
 Improvement Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the people of the Nation have become increasingly concerned about the
 number of students who do not complete secondary school; and
 (2) in order for the Nation to regain its economic competitiveness, each
 child in the United States must be educated to his or her greatest potential
 and must be encouraged to finish secondary school.
 (b) STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY- It is the responsibility of the Federal
 Government to--
 (1) increase the number of Federally funded demonstration programs that
 have proven successful in increasing the secondary school completion rate;
 (2) encourage States to adopt specific plans to increase secondary school
 completion rates; and
 (3) enlist the assistance of community-based organizations in preventing
 students from dropping out of school.
SEC. 3. REVISIONS TO SECONDARY SCHOOL PROGRAMS FOR BASIC SKILLS IMPROVEMENT
AND DROPOUT PREVENTION AND REENTRY.
 (a) RESERVATIONS-
 (1) GENERAL RULE- Subsection (a) of section 1102 of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2761) is amended to read as
 follows:
 `(a) RESERVATIONS- From the amount appropriated under section 1110 for each
 of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the Secretary shall first reserve--
 `(1) an amount equal to 3 percent of such amount for programs consistent with
 the purpose of this part for school dropout prevention and reentry programs
 and secondary school basic skills improvement programs for migrant children,
 to be conducted through the Office of Migrant Education; and
 `(2) an amount equal to 5 percent of such amount for replication and
 technical assistance activities.'.
 (b) USES OF FUNDS- Section 1103 of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2763) is amended--
 (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a) GENERAL RULE-
 `(1) A local educational agency may use--
 `(A) not to exceed 50 percent of funds paid under this part in any fiscal year
 for dropout prevention and reentry activities pursuant to subsection (c); and
 `(B) the remainder of such funds for secondary schools basic skills
 improvement activities pursuant to subsection (b).
 `(2) A community-based organization shall use all funds paid under this part
 in any fiscal year for dropout prevention and reentry activities pursuant
 to subsection (c).';
 (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
 `(d) WITHIN-STATE ALLOCATION-
 `(1) Each State educational agency, from funds received under this part--
 `(A) shall first reserve an amount equal to 5 percent of such funds
 for programs consistent with the purpose of this part for school dropout
 prevention and reentry programs conducted by community-based organizations
 that have demonstrated effectiveness in programs for dropout prevention
 and reentry activities or basic skills improvement activities; and
 `(B) shall then allocate funds among local educational agencies in the
 State on the basis of--
 `(i) the eligibility of such agency for funds under section 1005; and
 `(ii) the criteria described in section 1105.
 `(2) Each local educational agency may carry out the activities described
 in section 1103 in cooperation with community-based organizations.'.
 (c) PLAN FOR PROGRAM TO INCREASE THE SECONDARY SCHOOL COMPLETION RATE-
 Section 1104 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
 U.S.C. 2764) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `or community-based organization' after
 `local educational agency';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (10) as paragraphs (3) through
 (12), respectively;
 (B) by inserting before paragraph (3) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)
 of this paragraph) the following:
 `(1) contain a plan that describes specific proposals for a program to
 increase the secondary school completion rate of the State by not later than
 January 1, 2001, by a percentage equal to one-half the difference between
 100 percent and the secondary school completion rate for individuals in
 the State aged 18 to 35, inclusive, as of January 1, 1990;
 `(2) assure that requirements for obtaining a certificate of graduation from a
 school providing secondary education or its equivalent will not be lowered;';
 (C) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph),
 by inserting `or community-based organization' after `local educational
 agency';
 (D) in paragraph (5) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph),
 by inserting `or areas' after `schools';
 (E) in paragraph (9) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this
 paragraph), by striking `community-based organizations,' and inserting
 `the local educational agency concerned or community-based organizations,
 as appropriate,';
 (F) in paragraph (10) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph),
 by inserting `or community-based organization' after `local educational
 agency'; and
 (G) in paragraph (11) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this
 paragraph)--
 (i) by inserting `concerned' after `local educational agency'; and
 (ii) by inserting `or community-based organization' after `such agency'; and
 (3) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
 `(d) TIME FOR SUBMISSION OF APPLICATIONS- Each State shall submit to the
 Secretary--
 `(1) an initial application that covers a 3-year period by not later than
 January 1, 1992;
 `(2) an initial or a renewal application that covers a 3-year period by
 not later than January 1, 1995; and
 `(3) a renewal application that covers a 3-year period by not later than
 January 1, 1998.'.
 (d) AWARD OF GRANTS- Section 1105 of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2765) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- ' before `Each State';
 (2) in subsection (a) (as designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection),
 by inserting `and community-based organizations' after `local educational
 agencies' in the matter preceding paragraph (1); and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(b) PRIORITIES FOR GRANTS TO COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS-
 `(1) The State educational agency shall give priority for grants from amounts
 reserved under section 1103(d)(1)(A) to community-based organizations that
 intend to use funds under the grant to establish or operate model secondary
 school community education employment centers to meet the education needs
 of inner-city, low-income youths or rural youths by awarding grants to
 eligible recipients to establish community education employment centers to
 provide students with the education, skills, support services, and enrichment
 necessary to ensure--
 `(A) graduation from secondary school;
 `(B) successful transition from articulated vocational and academic programs
 to a broad range of post secondary institutions;
 `(C) employment, including military service; and
 `(D) integration into America's economic mainstream.
 `(2) Each center that is assisted with a grant under this part shall offer--
 `(A) a comprehensive program of confidential guidance counseling;
 `(B) professional staff members who demonstrate the highest academic,
 teaching, guidance, or administrative standards, as appropriate; and
 `(C) active and informed parental and community participation.'.
 (e) REPORTS; DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION BASE- Part C of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2761 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating sections 1106, 1107, and 1108 as sections 1108, 1109,
 and 1111, respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after section 1105 the following:
`SEC. 1106. REPORTS; DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION BASE.
 `(a) REPORTS TO STATES- Each local educational agency or individual school
 that receives assistance under a grant made under this part shall annually
 submit a report to the State describing activities carried out with such
 assistance and progress toward increasing the secondary school completion
 rate achieved as a result of such activities.
 `(b) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- Each State shall annually submit a report to the
 Secretary describing activities carried out with assistance received under
 this section and progress achieved toward increasing the secondary school
 completion rate as a result of such activities.
 `(c) DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION BASE- From information contained in
 the reports required under subsection (b), the Secretary shall create an
 information base containing information on dropout prevention programs for use
 by State and local educational agencies, elementary and secondary schools,
 and interested community organizations in the development or refinement of
 dropout prevention programs. The Secretary shall ensure that such information
 base is easily accessible to such agencies, schools, and organizations.'.
 (f) COORDINATION AND DISSEMINATION- Part C of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2761 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
 section 1106 (as inserted by subsection (e)(2) of this section) the following:
`SEC. 1107. COORDINATION AND DISSEMINATION.
 `(a) GRANTS TO REGIONAL LABORATORIES- From an amount equal to 65 percent
 of the amount reserved under section 1102(a)(2), the Secretary shall make
 grants to regional laboratories supported by the Secretary under section
 405(d)(4)(A)(i) of the General Education Provisions Act for the purposes of--
 `(1) identifying model programs for dropout prevention and reentry in
 their regions;
 `(2) disseminating such programs; and
 `(3) providing assistance to schools in replicating such programs.
 `(b) ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL DIFFUSION NETWORK- The Secretary shall provide
 an amount equal to 45 percent of the amount reserved under section 1102(a)(2)
 to the National Diffusion Network established under section 1562 for the
 purpose of replicating model programs for dropout prevention and reentry.'.
 (g) FISCAL REQUIREMENTS AND COORDINATION PROVISIONS- Paragraph (3) of
 section 1108(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (as
 redesignated by subsection (e)(1) of this section) is amended by inserting
 `and community-based organizations' after `Local educational agencies'.
 (h) DEFINITION ESTABLISHED- Part C of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2761 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section
 1109 (as redesignated by subsection (e)(1) of this section) the following:
`SEC. 1110. DEFINITION OF SECONDARY SCHOOL COMPLETION RATE.
 `The Secretary shall establish a definition for the term `secondary school
 completion rate' for purposes of this part.'.
SEC. 4. CENTER FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIAL EXPANSION.
 (a) GRANT AUTHORIZED- (1) The Secretary of Education (hereafter in this
 section referred to as the `Secretary') is authorized to award a grant to
 Loyola University of Chicago located in Chicago, Illinois, to pay the Federal
 share of the cost of construction and related costs for the establishment of a
 Center for Commerce and Industrial Expansion at Loyola University of Chicago.
 (2) The Federal share shall not be less than 33 percent.
 (b) APPLICATION- No grant may be awarded under this section unless
 an application is made at such time, in such manner and containing or
 accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may reasonably require.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums, not to exceed $8,000,000, as may be necessary to carry out the
 provisions of this section. Funds appropriated pursuant to this section
 shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 5. ASSISTANCE TO PROVIDE BASIC SKILLS IMPROVEMENT.
 Section 6103 of the Secondary Schools Basic Skills Demonstration Assistance
 Act of 1988 (20 U.S.C. 3263) is amended by striking `fiscal year 1989'
 and inserting `each of the fiscal years 1991 and 1992'.
SEC. 6. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 Section 6102(b) of the Training Technology Transfer Act of 1988 (20
 U.S.C. 5092) is amended by striking `education training, and' and inserting
 `education and training of students and teachers and the'.
SEC. 7. CENTERS FOR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS EDUCATION.
 Section 614(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1130b(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `$5,000,000' and inserting `$7,500,000'; and
 (2) by striking `3 succeeding' and inserting `4 succeeding'.
SEC. 8. DAKOTA WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 487(c)(2)(B) of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965, the Secretary of Education shall reassess the amount owed by
 the Dakota Wesleyan University, located in Mitchell, South Dakota, in the
 amount of $159,260, plus any accrued interest thereon to $16,113.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.