 
--H.R.2006--
H.R.2006
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To expand the powers of the Indian Arts and Crafts Board, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--INDIAN ARTS AND CRAFTS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990'.
SEC. 102. POWERS OF INDIAN ARTS AND CRAFTS BOARD.
 Section 2 of the Act entitled `An Act to promote the development of Indian
 arts and crafts and to create a board to assist therein, and for other
 purposes' (25 U.S.C. 305a) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking `the Board' and inserting `the Secretary of the Interior
 through the Board'; and
 (B) by striking `the Indian wards of the Government' and inserting `Indian
 individuals';
 (2) by amending clause (g) to read as follows: `(g)(1) to create for the
 Board, or for an individual Indian or Indian tribe or Indian arts and crafts
 organization, trademarks of genuineness and quality for Indian products and
 the products of an individual Indian or particular Indian tribe or Indian
 arts and crafts organization; (2) to establish standards and regulations
 for the use of Government-owned trademarks by corporations, associations,
 or individuals, and to charge for such use under such licenses; (3) to
 register any such trademark owned by the Government in the United States
 Patent and Trademark Office without charge and assign it and the goodwill
 associated with it to an individual Indian or Indian tribe without charge;
 and (4) to pursue or defend in the courts any appeal or proceeding with
 respect to any final determination of that office;'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `For the purposes of
 this section, the term `Indian arts and crafts organization' means any
 legally established arts and crafts marketing organization composed of
 members of Indian tribes.'.
SEC. 103. REFERRAL FOR CRIMINAL AND CIVIL VIOLATIONS.
 The Act entitled `An Act to promote the development of Indian arts and
 crafts and to create a board to assist therein, and for other purposes'
 (25 U.S.C. 305 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end of the following:
 `SEC. 5. (a) The Board may receive complaints of violations of section 1159
 of title 18, United States Code, and refer complaints of such violations
 to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for appropriate investigation. After
 reviewing the investigation report, the Board may recommend to the Attorney
 General of the United States that criminal proceedings be instituted under
 that section.
 `(b) The Board may recommend that the Secretary of the Interior refer the
 matter to the Attorney General for civil action under section 6.'.
SEC. 104. CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR MISREPRESENTATION OF INDIAN PRODUCED GOODS
AND PRODUCTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1159 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
 to read as follows:
`Sec. 1159. Misrepresentation of Indian produced goods and products
 `(a) It is unlawful to offer or display for sale or sell any good, with
 or without a Government trademark, in a manner that falsely suggests it is
 Indian produced, an Indian product, or the product of a particular Indian
 or Indian tribe or Indian arts and crafts organization, resident within
 the United States.
 `(b) Whoever knowingly violates subsection (a) shall--
 `(1) in the case of a first violation, if an individual, be fined not more
 than $250,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, and, if a
 person other than an individual, be fined not more than $1,000,000; and
 `(2) in the case of subsequent violations, if an individual, be fined not
 more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than fifteen years, or both,
 and, if a person other than an individual, be fined not more than $5,000,000.
 `(c) As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `Indian' means any individual who is a member of an Indian
 tribe, or for the purposes of this section is certified as an Indian artisan
 by an Indian tribe;
 `(2) the terms `Indian product' and `product of a particular Indian tribe
 or Indian arts and crafts organization' has the meaning given such term in
 regulations which may be promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior;
 `(3) the term `Indian tribe' means--
 `(A) any Indian tribe, band, nation, Alaska Native village, or other organized
 group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs
 and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their
 status as Indians; or
 `(B) any Indian group that has been formally recognized as an Indian tribe
 by a State legislature or by a State commission or similar organization
 legislatively vested with State tribal recognition authority; and
 `(4) the term `Indian arts and crafts organization' means any legally
 established arts and crafts marketing organization composed of members of
 Indian tribes.
 `(d) In the event that any provision of this section is held invalid, it
 is the intent of Congress that the remaining provisions of this section
 shall continue in full force and effect.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The item relating to section 1159 in the table
 of sections for chapter 53 of title 18, United States Code, is amended to
 read as follows:
`1159. Misrepresentation of Indian produced goods and products.'.
SEC. 105. CAUSE OF ACTION FOR MISREPRESENTATION OF INDIAN PRODUCED GOODS
AND PRODUCTS.
 The Act entitled `An Act to promote the development of Indian arts and
 crafts and to create a board to assist therein, and for other purposes'
 (25 U.S.C. 305 et seq.) (as amended by section 3) is further amended by
 adding at the end of the following:
 `SEC. 6. (a) A person specified in subsection (c) may, in a civil action
 in a court of competent jurisdiction, bring an action against a person who
 offers or displays for sale or sells a good, with or without a Government
 trademark, in a manner that falsely suggests it is Indian produced, an
 Indian product, or the product of a particular Indian or Indian tribe or
 Indian arts and crafts organization, resident within the United States, to--
 `(1) obtain injunctive or other equitable relief; and
 `(2) recover the greater of--
 `(A) treble damages; or
 `(B) in the case of each aggrieved individual Indian, Indian tribe, or
 Indian arts and crafts organization, not less than $1,000 for each day on
 which the offer or display for sale or sale continues.
 `(b) In addition to the relief specified in subsection (a), the court may
 award punitive damages and the costs of suit and a reasonable attorney's fee.
 `(c)(1) A civil action under subsection (a) may be commenced--
 `(A) by the Attorney General of the United States upon request of the
 Secretary of the Interior on behalf of an Indian who is a member of an
 Indian tribe or on behalf of an Indian tribe or Indian arts and crafts
 organization; or
 `(B) by an Indian tribe on behalf of itself, an Indian who is a member of
 the tribe, or on behalf of an Indian arts and crafts organization.
 `(2) Any amount recovered pursuant to this section shall be paid to the
 individual Indian, Indian tribe, or Indian arts and crafts organization,
 except that--
 `(A) in the case of paragraph (1)(A), the Attorney General may deduct from the
 amount recovered the amount for the costs of suit and reasonable attorney's
 fees awarded pursuant to subsection (b) and deposit the amount of such costs
 and fees as a reimbursement credited to appropriations currently available
 to the Attorney General at the time of receipt of the amount recovered; and
 `(B) in the case of paragraph (1)(B), the amount recovered for the costs
 of suit and reasonable attorney's fees pursuant to subsection (b) may be
 deducted from the total amount awarded under subsection (a)(2).
 `(d) As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `Indian' means any individual who is a member of an Indian
 tribe; or for the purposes of this section is certified as an Indian artisan
 by an Indian tribe;
 `(2) the terms `Indian product' and `product of a particular Indian tribe
 or Indian arts and crafts organization' has the meaning given such term in
 regulations which may be promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior;
 `(3) the term `Indian tribe' means--
 `(A) any Indian tribe, band, nation, Alaska Native village, or other organized
 group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs
 and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their
 status as Indians; or
 `(B) any Indian group that has been formally recognized as an Indian tribe
 by a State legislature or by a State commission or similar organization
 legislatively vested with State tribal recognition authority; and
 `(4) the term `Indian arts and crafts organization' means any legally
 established arts and crafts marketing organization composed of members of
 Indian tribes.
 `(e) In the event that any provision of this section is held invalid, it
 is the intent of Congress that the remaining provisions of this section
 shall continue in full force and effect.'.
SEC. 106. PENALTY FOR COUNTERFEITING INDIAN ARTS AND CRAFTS BOARD TRADEMARK.
 Section 1158 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking `be
 fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both;
 and' and inserting `(1) in the case of a first violation, if an individual,
 be fined not more than $250,000 or imprisoned not more than five years,
 or both, and, if a person other than an individual, be fined not more than
 $1,000,000; and (2) in the case of subsequent violations, if an individual,
 be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than fifteen years,
 or both, and, if a person other than an individual, be fined not more than
 $5,000,000; and (3)'.
SEC. 107. CERTIFICATION OF INDIAN ARTISANS.
 For the purposes of section 1159 of title 18, United States Code, and section
 6 of the Act entitled `An Act to promote the development of Indian arts
 and crafts and to create a board to assist therein, and for other purposes'
 (25 U.S.C. 305 et seq.) an Indian tribe may not impose a fee in certifying an
 individual as an Indian artisan. For the purposes of this section, the term
 `Indian tribe' has the same meaning given such term in section 1159(c)(3)
 of title 18, United States Code.
TITLE II--TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Indian Self-Determination and Education
 Assistance Act Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 202. AMENDMENTS TO INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT.
 The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act is amended
 as follows:
 (1) In section 4(h) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(h)), delete `in existence
 on the date of enactment of the Indian Self-Determination and Education
 Assistance Act Amendments of 1988'.
 (2) In section 4(j) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(j)), delete `contract
 entered' each place it appears and insert in lieu thereof `contract (or
 grant or cooperative agreement utilized under section 9 of this Act) entered'.
 (3) In section 5(d) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450c(d)), delete the word `Any'
 and insert in lieu thereof `Except as provided in section 8 or 106(a)(3)
 of this Act,' and before the period insert the words `through the respective
 Secretary'.
SEC. 203. AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION ACT.
 (a) Section 106 of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450j-1(e))
 is amended by deleting `1988' and inserting in lieu thereof `1992'.
 (b) In section 102(d) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450f(d)), immediately after
 `investigations,', insert `or for purposes of section 2679, title 28,
 United States Code, with respect to claims by any such person, on or after
 the date of the enactment of the Indian Self-Determination and Education
 Assistance Act Amendments of 1990, for personal injury, including death,
 resulting from the operation of an emergency motor vehicle,'.
 (c) Section 105(c)(1)(B) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450j(c)(1)(B)) is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(B) for a definite or an indefinite term, as requested by the tribe (or,
 to the extent not limited by tribal resolution, by the tribal organization),
 in the case of a mature contract.'.
 (d) Section 105(d) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450j(d)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(d)(1) Beginning in fiscal year 1990, upon the election of a tribal
 organization, the Secretary shall use the calendar year as the basis for
 any contracts or agreements under this Act, unless the Secretary and the
 Indian tribe or tribal organization agree on a different period.
 `(2) The Secretary shall, on or before April 1 of each year beginning in
 1992, submit a report to the Congress on the amounts of any additional
 obligation authority needed to implement this subsection in the next
 following fiscal year.'.
 (e) In paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 105(f) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450j(f)
 (2) and (3)), insert `or real' immediately after `personal' each place it
 appears in such paragraphs.
 (f) In section 107(c) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 450k(c)), immediately after
 `authorized', insert the following: `, with the participation of Indian
 tribes and tribal organizations,'.
 (g)(1) In section 301(a)(3) of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25
 U.S.C. 450h(a)(3)), delete `reservation boundaries' and insert in lieu thereof
 `Indian country (as defined in chapter 53 of title 18, United States Code)'.
 (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall not alter or otherwise modify
 or affect existing prohibitions or limitations on the Secretary's authority
 to acquire lands in trust.
TITLE III--AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
SEC. 301. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO INDIAN LAND CONSOLIDATION ACT- Section 207(a) of the
 Indian Land Consolidation Act (25 U.S.C. 2206) is amended by deleting `No
 undivided interest in any tract of trust or restricted land within a tribe's
 reservation or otherwise subject to a tribe's jurisdiction shall descend
 by intestacy or devise but shall escheat to that tribe' and inserting in
 lieu thereof the following: `No undivided interest held by a member or
 nonmember Indian in any tract of trust land or restricted land within a
 tribe's reservation or outside of a reservation and subject to such tribe's
 jurisdiction shall descend by intestacy or devise but shall escheat to the
 reservation's recognized tribal government, or if outside of a reservation,
 to the recognized tribal government possessing jurisdiction over the land'.
 (b) AMENDMENT TO ACT OF NOVEMBER 8, 1988- In section 1 of the Act entitled
 `An Act to declare that certain lands be held in trust for the Quinault
 Indian Nation, and for other purposes', approved November 8, 1988 (102
 Stat. 3327), insert `and attached narrative metes and bounds description'
 immediately after `map' each time it appears.
 (c) AMENDMENT TO THE ACT OF MARCH 29, 1956- The second sentence of subsection
 (a) of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize the execution of mortgages and
 deeds of trust on individual Indian trust or restricted land', approved March
 29, 1956 (25 U.S.C. 483a), is amended by inserting immediately before `State'
 the following: `tribe which has jurisdiction over such land or, in the case
 where no tribal foreclosure law exists, in accordance with the laws of the'.
SEC. 302. AMENDMENT TO THE ACT OF JUNE 24, 1938.
 Section 1 of the Act of June 24, 1938 (25 U.S.C. 162a) is amended by
 designating the existing text thereof as subsection (a), and by adding at
 the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(b)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior, at
 the request of any Indian tribe, in the case of trust funds of such tribe,
 or any individual Indian, in the case of trust funds of such individual,
 is authorized to invest such funds, or any part thereof, in guaranteed or
 public debt obligations of the United States or in a mutual fund, otherwise
 known as an open-ended diversified investment management company if--
 `(A) the portfolio of such mutual fund consists entirely of public-debt
 obligations of the United States, or bonds, notes, or other obligations
 which are unconditionally guaranteed as to both interest and principal by
 the United States, or a combination thereof;
 `(B) the trust funds to be invested exceed $50,000;
 `(C) the mutual fund is registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission;
 and
 `(D) the Secretary is satisfied with respect to the security and protection
 provided by the mutual fund against loss of the principal of such trust funds.
 `(2) The Secretary, as a condition to complying with a request pursuant to
 paragraph (1) of this subsection, is authorized to require such tribe or
 individual Indian, as the case may be, to enter into an agreement with the
 Secretary for the purpose of relieving the United States of any liability
 in connection with the interest, or amount thereof, payable in connection
 with such trust funds so invested during the period of that investment.
 `(3) Investments pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be
 deemed to be the same as cash or a bank deposit for purposes of section 5
 of the Act of September 21, 1959 (25 U.S.C. 955).'.
SEC. 303. AMENDMENT TO INDIAN FINANCING ACT OF 1974.
 (a) Section 101 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1461)
 is amended--
 (1) by deleting `money markets,' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `money markets, or to supplement funds from private lenders, including
 loans guaranteed by the Secretary pursuant to section 201 of this Act,'; and
 (2) by inserting immediately before the period at the end of the third
 sentence a comma and the following: `or, in the discretion of the Secretary
 of the Interior, as a contribution to the Indian Loan Guaranty and Insurance
 Fund authorized by section 217 of this Act, or for the payment of interest
 subsidies authorized by section 301 of this Act'.
 (b) Section 204 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1484)
 is amended--
 (1) by deleting in the first sentence the word `prior'; and
 (2) by deleting in the second sentence `shall review' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `may review'.
TITLE IV--PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT
SEC. 401. AMENDMENT TO PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.
 Section 338J(a) of subpart III of part D of title III of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254s) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) Subject to the availability of funds appropriated under the authority of
 subsection (d), the Secretary shall provide funds to Kamehameha Schools/Bishop
 Estate for the purpose of providing scholarship assistance to students who--
 `(1) meet the requirements of section 338A(b), and
 `(2) are Native Hawaiians.'.
TITLE V--BOARD OF INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE CULTURE
AND ARTS DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 501. GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD OF INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA
NATIVE CULTURE AND ARTS DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) INTEREST AND INVESTMENT INCOME- Section 1507 of the American Indian,
 Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian Culture and Art Development Act (20
 U.S.C. 4414) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c) INTEREST AND INVESTMENTS- Interest and earnings on amounts received
 by the Institute pursuant to section 1531 invested under subsection (a)(12)
 shall be the property of the Institute and may be expended to carry out this
 title. The Board shall be held to a reasonable and prudent standard of care,
 given such information and circumstances as existed when the decision is
 made, in decisions involving investment of funds under subsection (a)(12).'.
 (b) INSURANCE- Section 1507(a)(11) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 4414(a)(11))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(11) to the extent not already provided by law, to obtain insurance to
 cover all activities of the Institute, including coverage relating to
 property and liability, or make other provisions against losses.'.
SEC. 502. ESTABLISHMENTS WITHIN THE INSTITUTE.
 Section 1510(b) of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
 Culture and Art Development Act (20 U.S.C. 4417(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (A) and redesignating
 subparagraphs (B) through (I) as subparagraphs (A) through (H), respectively;
 (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
 (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
 `(3) a Museum of American Indian and Alaska Native Arts, which shall be
 under the direction of the President of the Institute.'.
SEC. 503. TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS.
 Section 1514 of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
 Culture and Art Development Act (20 U.S.C. 4421) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (d), (e), and (f); and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection (d):
 `(d) FORGIVENESS OF AMOUNTS OWED; HOLD HARMLESS- (1) Subject to paragraph
 (2)--
 `(A) the Institute shall be responsible for all obligations of the Institute
 incurred after June 2, 1988, and
 `(B) the Secretary shall be responsible for all obligations of the Institute
 incurred on or before June 2, 1988, including those which accrued by
 reason of any statutory, contractual, or other reason prior to June 2,
 1988, which became payable within two years of June 2, 1988.
 `(2) With respect to all programs of the Federal Government, in whatever form
 or from whatever source derived, the Institute shall only be held responsible
 for actions and requirements, either administrative, regulatory, or statutory
 in nature, for events which occurred after July 1, 1988, including the
 submission of reports, audits, and other required information. The United
 States may not seek any monetary damage or repayment for the commission
 of events, or omission to comply with either administrative or regulatory
 requirements, for any action which occurred prior to June 2, 1988.'.
SEC. 504. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ACTS.
 Section 1517 of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
 Culture and Art Development Act (20 U.S.C. 4424) is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
 `(c) OTHER FEDERAL ASSISTANCE- Funds received by the institute pursuant to
 this Act shall not be regarded as Federal money for purposes of meeting
 any matching requirements for any Federal grant, contract or cooperative
 agreement.'.
SEC. 505. ENDOWMENT PROGRAMS.
 Section 1518 of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
 Culture and Art Development Act (20 U.S.C. 4425) is amended to read as
 follows:
`SEC. 1518. ENDOWMENT PROGRAMS.
 `(a) PROGRAM ENHANCEMENT ENDOWMENT-
 `(1)(A) From the total amount appropriated for this subsection pursuant
 to section 1531(a), funds may be deposited into a trust fund maintained by
 the Institute at a federally insured banking or savings institution.
 `(B) The President of the Institute shall provide--
 `(i) for the deposit into the trust fund referred to in subparagraph (A)--
 `(I) of a capital contribution by the Institute in an amount equal to the
 amount of each Federal contribution; and
 `(II) any earnings on the funds deposited under this paragraph; or
 `(ii) for the reservation for the sole use of the Institute of any noncash,
 in-kind contributions of real or personal property, which property may
 at any time be converted to cash, which shall be deposited as a capital
 contribution into the trust fund referred to in subparagraph (A).
 `(C) If at any time the Institute withdraws any capital contribution
 (as described in subparagraph (B)(i)) made by the Institute to the trust
 fund referred to in subparagraph (A) or puts any property (as described
 in subparagraph (B)(ii)) to a use which is not for the sole benefit of
 the Institute, an amount equal to the value of the Federal contribution
 shall be withdrawn from such trust fund and returned to the Treasury as
 miscellaneous receipts.
 `(2) Interest deposited into the trust fund pursuant to paragraph (1)(B)(ii)
 may be periodically withdrawn and used, at the direction of the Board
 or its designee, to defray any expense associated with the operation
 of the Institute, including the expense of operations and maintenance,
 administration, academic and support personnel, community and student
 services programs, and technical assistance.
 `(3) For the purpose of complying with the contribution requirement of
 paragraph (1)(B), the Institute may use funds or in-kind contributions of
 real or personal property fairly valued which are made available from any
 private or tribal source, including interest earned by the funds invested
 under this subsection. In-kind contributions shall be other than fully
 depreciable property or property which is designated for addition to the
 permanent collection of the Museum and shall be valued according to the
 procedures established for such purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury. For
 purposes of this paragraph, all contributions, including in-kind and real
 estate, which are on-hand as of the date of enactment of this Act and which
 have been received after June 2, 1988, but which have not been included
 in computations under this provision shall be eligible for matching with
 Federal funds appropriated in any fiscal year.
 `(4) Amounts appropriated under section 1531(a) for use under this subsection
 shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Institute as a
 Federal capital contribution equal to the amount of funds or the value of
 the in-kind contributions which the Institute demonstrates have been placed
 within the control of, or irrevocably committed to the use of, the Institute
 as a capital contribution of the Institute in accordance with this subsection.
 `(b) CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT ENDOWMENT-
 `(1) In addition to the trust fund established under subsection (a),
 funds may be deposited into a trust fund maintained by the Institute
 at a federally insured banking or savings institution from the amount
 reserved for this subsection pursuant to section 1531(a) for the purpose
 of establishing a separate special endowment for capital improvement
 (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the `capital endowment
 fund') to pay expenses associated with site selection and preparation,
 site planning and architectural design and planning, new construction,
 materials and equipment procurement, renovation, alteration, repair, and
 other building and expansion costs of the Institute.
 `(2) The President of the Institute shall provide for the deposit into the
 capital endowment fund of a capital contribution by the Institute in an
 amount equal to the amount of each Federal contribution and any earnings
 on amounts in the capital endowment fund.
 `(3) Funds deposited by the Institute as a match for Federal contributions
 under paragraph (5) shall remain in the capital endowment fund for a period
 of not less than two years. If at any time the Institute withdraws any
 capital contribution to the capital endowment fund before the funds have
 been deposited for this two-year period, an equal amount of the Federal
 contribution shall be withdrawn from the capital endowment fund and returned
 to the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. At the end of the two-year period,
 the entire principal and interest of the funds deposited for this period,
 including the Federal matching portion, shall accrue, without reservation,
 to the Institute and may be withdrawn, in whole or in part, to defray expenses
 associated with capital acquisition and improvement of the Institute referred
 to in paragraph (1).
 `(4) For the purpose of complying with the contribution requirement of
 paragraph (2), the Institute may use funds which are available from any
 private or tribal source.
 `(5) Subject to paragraph (3), amounts appropriated under section 1531(a) for
 use under this subsection shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury to
 the Institute as a Federal capital contribution equal to the amount which the
 Institute demonstrates has been placed within the control of, or irrevocably
 committed to the use of, the Institute and is available for deposit as a
 capital contribution of the Institute in accordance with this subsection.
 `(c) GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS- (1) Funds in the trust funds
 described in subsections (a) and (b) shall be invested at a rate not less
 than that generally available for similar funds deposited at the same
 banking institution for the same period or periods of time.
 `(2) No part of the net earnings of the trust funds established under this
 section shall inure to the benefit of any private person.
 `(3) The President of the Institute shall provide for such other provisions
 governing the trust funds established under this section as may be necessary
 to protect the financial interest of the United States and to promote the
 purpose of this title as agreed to by the Secretary of the Treasury and the
 Board or its designee, including recordkeeping procedures for the investment
 of funds received under the trust fund established under subsection (b)
 and such other recordkeeping procedures for the expenditure of accumulated
 interest for the trust fund under subsection (a) as will allow the Secretary
 of the Treasury to audit and monitor activities under this section.'.
SEC. 506. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 1531(a) of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
 Culture and Art Development Act (20 U.S.C. 4451(a)) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(4) Funds appropriated under this subsection for the fiscal year 1992 and
 for each succeeding fiscal year shall be transferred by the Secretary of the
 Treasury through the most expeditious method available with the Institute
 being designated as its own certifying agency.
 `(5) Funds are authorized to be appropriated for programs for more than
 one fiscal year. For the purpose of affording adequate notice of funding
 available under this Act, amounts appropriated in an appropriations Act for
 any fiscal year to carry out this Act may, subject to the appropriation,
 become available for obligations on July 1 of that fiscal year.'.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. COCHITI DAM LICENSE.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Federal law, no license shall
 be issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the development
 of hydroelectric power at the Army Corps of Engineers' Cochiti Dam located
 on the Pueblo de Cochiti Indian Reservation in the State of New Mexico.
SEC. 602. DAKOTA WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 487(c)(2)(B) of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965, the Secretary of Education shall reassess the amount owed by
 the Dakota Wesleyan University, located in Mitchell, South Dakota, in the
 amount of $159,260, plus any accrued interest thereon to $16,113.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.