 
--H.R.3910--
H.R.3910
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To require the Secretary of Education to conduct a comprehensive national
assessment of programs carried out with assistance under chapter 1 of title
I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `1992 National Assessment of Chapter 1 Act'.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF PROGRAMS ASSISTED UNDER CHAPTER 1.
 (a) National Assessment-
 (1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT- The Secretary of Education, through the Deputy Under
 Secretary for Planning, Budget, and Evaluation and the Assistant Secretary
 of Educational Research and Improvement (in this section referred to as the
 `Assistant Secretary'), shall conduct a comprehensive national assessment
 of the effects of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965 (in this section referred to as `chapter 1').
 (2) INDEPENDENT REVIEW PANEL- Such assessment shall be planned, reviewed,
 and conducted in consultation with an independent panel of researchers,
 State practitioners, local practitioners, and other appropriate individuals
 including individuals with a background in conducting congressionally
 mandated national assessments of chapter 1. The Federal Advisory Committee
 Act shall not apply to the establishment or operation of such panel.
 (3) COORDINATION WITH AND USE OF EXISTING STUDIES- Such assessment shall
 be coordinated with all related research conducted by the Secretary of
 Education. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or alter
 the authority of the Secretary to review other program aspects of chapter
 1 not mandated by this section.
 (b) CONTENTS OF ASSESSMENT- The assessment required by subsection (a)
 shall include descriptions and evaluations of--
 (1) the implementation of the provisions of sections 1019, 1020, 1021,
 and 1435 of chapter 1, including--
 (A) the progress made by State educational agencies and local educational
 agencies in implementing such sections;
 (B) procedures used by State educational agencies and local educational
 agencies to govern interactions between such agencies relating to the
 administration and coordination of the provisions of such sections;
 (C) program improvements undertaken by local educational agencies and State
 educational agencies under such sections and the effects of such improvements
 on program participants with respect to the basic and more advanced skills
 that all children are expected to master; and
 (D) major programmatic accomplishments and problems and procedural
 accomplishments and problems caused by the implementation of such sections;
 (2) the implementation of section 1015 of chapter 1, including--
 (A) the number of schoolwide projects assisted under such section;
 (B) operational procedures used by the schoolwide projects assisted under
 such section, including an analysis of similarities and differences in
 procedures and programs among such projects in different States;
 (C) accomplishments and problems resulting from establishing schoolwide
 projects;
 (D) an analysis of the effectiveness of schoolwide projects as compared to
 other programs assisted under part A of chapter 1; and
 (E) a description of uses of funds in programs assisted in the implementation
 of schoolwide projects;
 (3) the overall operation and effectiveness of part A of chapter 1,
 including--
 (A) program participation, particularly--
 (i) allocation of funds to school sites and the factors involved in such
 allocation;
 (ii) recipients of services delivered with assistance under such part,
 including limited English proficient students;
 (iii) with respect to each local educational agency that receives assistance
 under such part (or a representative sample of such agencies for each State),
 the number of eligible children within the jurisdiction of such agency,
 the resources necessary to serve all such eligible children, and the school
 attendance of participants in programs assisted under such part; and
 (iv) the effect of the decennial census compiled by the Bureau of the
 Census in 1990 on the allocation of funding to local educational agencies,
 as well as counties;
 (B) program services and personnel, particularly--
 (i) services delivered with assistance under part A of chapter 1; and
 (ii) a comparison of the background and training of teachers and staff who
 conduct programs assisted under part A of chapter 1 and regular classroom
 teachers and staff;
 (C) program administration, particularly--
 (i) coordination with regular classroom activities and with other programs;
 (ii) the adequacy of standardized tests; and
 (iii) the effectiveness of parent involvement procedures in enhancing
 parental collaboration with schools and parent involvement in the children's
 educational development;
 (D) program outcomes, particularly--
 (i) student achievement, as reflected by student attendance, behavior,
 grades, and other indicators of achievement; and
 (ii) the development of curricula that provides effective instruction in
 basic and more advanced skills that all children are expected to master; and
 (E) a national profile of the manner in which local educational agencies
 implement activities described in the plans included in their applications
 submitted to the Secretary under section 1056 of chapter 1;
 (4) the implementation of section 1017 of chapter 1;
 (5) the operation and effectiveness of Even Start projects carried out
 under part B of chapter 1; and
 (6) the operation and effectiveness of programs for migratory children
 carried out under subpart 1 of part D of chapter 1.
 (c) CONSULTATION WITH CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES- In designing and implementing
 the assessment required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Education shall
 consult with the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and
 the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives.
 (d) REPORTS TO CONGRESS-
 (1) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS- The Secretary of Education shall submit to the
 Congress--
 (A) not later than June 30, 1992, a report containing the preliminary
 results of the assessment required by subsection (a); and
 (B) not later than December 1, 1992, a final report with respect to such
 assessment.
 (2) LIMITATION ON DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW OF REPORTS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, the Secretary of Education shall make available to the
 appropriate committees of the Congress such studies, reports, and data
 as are submitted to the Secretary by grantees and contractors pursuant to
 this Act without any additions, deletions, or other modifications by the
 Department of Education. The Secretary of Education and the President may
 submit such additional studies and make such additional recommendations to
 the Congress with respect to chapter 1 as they may consider appropriate.
 (e) RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS- From funds appropriated for purposes of chapter
 1, the Secretary of Education shall reserve for purposes of conducting
 the assessment required by subsection (a) a total amount of not more
 than $6,000,000 from funds appropriated for the fiscal years 1990, 1991,
 1992, and 1993. Amounts reserved under the preceding sentence may only be
 expended during the period beginning on December 1, 1989, and ending on
 January 1, 1993.
SEC. 3. IMPACT AID.
 (a) AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS- (1) Subparagraph (A) of section 3(d)(2) of Public
 Law 81-874 is amended to read as follows:
 `(A)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), for any fiscal year after
 September 30, 1988, funds reserved to make payments under subparagraph (B)
 shall not exceed $25,000,000 from the funds appropriated for such fiscal year.
 `(ii) In the event that the payments made under subparagraph (B) in any
 fiscal year are less than $25,000,000, such remaining funds as do not exceed
 $25,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of carrying
 out the provisions of subparagraph (B). Such remaining funds shall not be
 considered part of the funds reserved to make payments under subparagraph
 (B), but shall be expended if funds in excess of $25,000,000 are needed to
 carry out the provisions of subparagraph (B) in any fiscal year.
 `(iii) If for any fiscal year the total amount of payments to be made under
 subparagraph (B) exceeds $25,000,000 and the funds described in clause (ii)
 are insufficient to make such payments, then the provisions of clause (i)
 shall not apply.'.
 (2) Subparagraph (B) of section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 101-26 is hereby
 repealed, and Public Law 81-874 shall be applied and administered as if
 such subparagraph (B) (and the amendment made by such subparagraph) had
 not been enacted.
 (b) ADJUSTMENTS FOR DECREASES IN FEDERAL ACTIVITIES- Section 3(e) of Public
 Law 81-874 is amended to read as follows:
 `(e)(1) Whenever the Secretary of Education determines that--
 `(A) for any fiscal year, the number of children determined with respect
 to any local educational agency under subsections (a) and (b) is less than
 90 percent of the number so determined with respect to such agency during
 the preceding fiscal year;
 `(B) there has been a decrease or cessation of Federal activities within
 the State in which such agency is located; and
 `(C) such decrease or cessation has resulted in a substantial decrease
 in the number of children determined under subsections (a) and (b) with
 respect to such agency for such fiscal year;
the amount to which such agency is entitled for such fiscal year and for any
of the 3 succeeding fiscal years shall not be less than 90 percent of the
payment such agency received under subsections (a) and (b) for the preceding
fiscal year.
 `(2) There is authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year such
 amount as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section,
 which remain available until expended.
 `(3) Expenditures pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be reported by the
 Secretary to the Committees on Appropriations and Education and Labor of
 the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate within 30 days of expenditure.
 `(4) The Secretary shall make available to the Congress in the Department
 of Education's annual budget submission, the amount of funds necessary to
 defray the costs associated with the provisions of this subsection during
 the fiscal year for which the submission is made.'.
 (c) APPLICATION- Section 5(a) of Public Law 81-874 (Impact Aid) (hereafter
 in this section referred to as `the Act') is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) APPLICATIONS- (1) Any local educational agency desiring to receive
 the payments to which it is entitled for any fiscal year under section 2,
 3, or 4 shall submit an application therefor to the Secretary and file
 a copy with the State educational agency. Each such application shall be
 submitted in such form, and containing such information, as the Secretary
 may reasonably require to determine whether such agency is entitled to a
 payment under any of such sections and the amount of any such payment.
 `(2) The Secretary shall establish a deadline for the receipt of
 applications. For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1991,
 the Secretary shall accept an approvable application received up to 60
 days after the deadline, but shall reduce the payment based on such late
 application by 10 percent of the amount that would otherwise be paid. The
 Secretary shall not accept or approve any application submitted more than
 60 days after the application deadline.
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, a State
 educational agency that had been accepted as an applicant for funds under
 section 3 for fiscal years 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988 shall be permitted
 to continue as an applicant under the same conditions by which it made
 application during such fiscal years only if such State educational agency
 distributes all funds received for the students for which application
 is being made by such State educational agency to the local educational
 agencies providing educational services to such students.'.
 (d) ADJUSTMENTS- Section 5(c)(2) of Public Law 81-874 is amended by inserting
 at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) For the purpose of determining the category under subparagraph (A)
 that is applicable to the local educational agency providing free public
 education to secondary school students residing on Hanscom Air Force Base,
 Massachusetts, the Secretary shall count children in kindergarten through
 grade 8 who are residing on such base as if such students are receiving a
 free public education from such local educational agency.'.
 (e) SPECIAL RULE- The Secretary of Education shall consider as timely filed,
 and shall process for payment, an application from a local educational
 agency that is eligible to receive the payments to which it is entitled in
 fiscal year 1990 under section 2 or 3 of the Act, if the Secretary receives
 the application by June 29, 1990, and the application is otherwise approvable.
 (f) DEFINITION- Section 403(6) of Public Law 81-874 is amended by inserting
 the following new sentences at the end thereof: `Such term does not
 include any agency or school authority that the Secretary determines,
 on a case-by-case basis--
 `(A) was constituted or reconstituted primarily for the purpose of receiving
 assistance under this Act or increasing the amount of that assistance;
 `(B) is not constituted or reconstituted for legitimate educational
 purposes; or
 `(C) was previously part of a school district upon being constituted or
 reconstituted.
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 3(a), such term
includes any agency or school authority that has had an arrangement with a
nonadjacent school district for the education of children of persons who
reside or work on an installation of the Department of Defense for more
than 25 years, but only if the Secretary determines that there is no single
school district adjacent to the school district in which the installation
is located that is capable of educating all such children.'.
SEC. 4. BILINGUAL EDUCATION.
 Awards made by the Secretary of Education to the Franklin-Northwest
 Supervisory Union of Vermont under the Bilingual Education Act (20 U.S.C. 3221
 et seq.), in amounts of--
 (1) $388,076.56 for the period of fiscal year 1984 through fiscal year 1986
 (for programs of bilingual education, however characterized),
 (2) $400,061.00 for the period of fiscal year 1984 through fiscal year 1986
 (for programs of bilingual education, however characterized), and
 (3) any expenditure of funds by the Franklin-Northwest Supervisory Union
 pursuant to the awards described in paragraphs (1) and (2),
shall be treated as if they were made in accordance with the provisions of
the Bilingual Education Act for purposes of any claims for repayment asserted
by the Secretary of Education.
SEC. 5. STUDENT LITERACY CORPS.
 Section 146 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 146. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions of
 this part $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1991.'.
SEC. 6. THE HEAD START ACT AND CHAPTER 1 OF TITLE I OF THE ELEMENTARY AND
SECONDARY EDUCATION ACT OF 1965.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Senate finds that--
 (1) one in every five children in America, some 12,600,000 youngsters under
 the age of 18, live in poverty;
 (2) the Head Start program and programs under chapter 1 of title I of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 are proven early education
 programs that offer the best opportunity to break the cycle of poverty;
 (3) since 1980, spending by the Federal Government for education has
 decreased by 4.7 percent in real terms;
 (4) $1 invested in high-quality preschool programs like Head Start and
 chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
 saves $6 in lowered costs for special education, grade retention, public
 assistance, and crime;
 (5) children who enroll in Head Start are more likely than other poor
 children to be literate, employed, and enrolled in postsecondary education;
 (6) children who enroll in Head Start programs are less likely than other
 poor children to be high school dropouts, teen parents, dependent on welfare,
 or arrested for criminal or delinquent activity;
 (7) children who enroll in programs under chapter 1 of title I of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 experience larger increases
 in standardized achievement scores than comparable students who did not
 enroll in such programs;
 (8) low funding levels for the Head Start Act limit the participation in
 Head Start programs to less than 20 percent of the eligible population; and
 (9) low funding levels for chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 limit participation in programs assisted
 under such Act to less than 50 percent of the eligible population.
 (b) SENSE OF SENATE- It is the sense of the Senate that appropriations
 for the Head Start Act should be increased to fully serve the potential,
 eligible population under such Act by fiscal year 1994 and that appropriations
 for chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
 1965 should be increased to the authorization level of such Act by fiscal
 year 1994.
SEC. 7. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2 of Public Law 81-874 is amended by inserting at
 the end thereof the following new subsection (d):
 `(d) The United States shall be deemed to own Federal property, for the
 purposes of this Act where--
 `(1) prior to the transfer of Federal property, the United States owned
 Federal property meeting the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), and
 (C) of subsection (a)(1); and
 `(2) the United States transfers a portion of the property referred to in
 paragraph (1) to another nontaxable entity, and the United States--
 `(A) restricts some or any construction on such property;
 `(B) requires that the property be used in perpetuity for the public purposes
 for which it was conveyed;
 `(C) requires the grantee of the property to report to the Federal Government
 (or its agent) setting forth information on the use of the property;
 `(D) prohibits the sale, lease assignment or other disposal of the property
 unless to another eligible government agency and with the approval of the
 Federal Government (or its agent); and
 `(E) reserves to the Federal Government a right of reversion at any time
 the Federal Government (or its agent) deems it necessary for the national
 defense.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on October 1, 1989.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.