 
--H.R.419--
H.R.419
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide for the addition of certain parcels to the Harry S Truman National
Historic Site in the State of Missouri.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
 (a) NOLAND/HAUKENBERRY HOUSE AND WALLACE HOMES- The first section of the
 Act entitled `An Act to establish the Harry S Truman National Historic Site
 in the State of Missouri, and for other purposes', approved May 23, 1983
 (97 Stat. 193), is amended--
 (1) by striking `That,' and inserting `That (a)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(b)(1) The Secretary is further authorized to acquire by any means set
 forth in subsection (a) the real properties commonly referred to as--
 `(A) the Noland/Haukenberry house and associated lands on Delaware Street
 in the city of Independence, Missouri, and
 `(B) the Frank G. Wallace house and the George P. Wallace house, and
 associated lands, both on Truman Road in the city of Independence, Missouri.
 `(2) The owners of property referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of
 its acquisition by the Secretary may, as a condition to such acquisition,
 retain the right of use and occupancy of the improved property for a term
 of up to and including 25 years or, in lieu thereof, for a term ending at
 the death of the owner or the spouse of the owner, whichever is later. The
 owner shall elect the term to be reserved.
 `(3) Unless a property acquired pursuant to this subsection is wholly or
 partially donated to the United States, the Secretary shall pay the owner
 the fair market value of the property on the date of acquisition less the
 fair market value, on that date, of the right retained by the owner under
 paragraph (2).'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The first sentence of section 2 of such Act is
 amended by striking `subsection (a)' and inserting `the first section of
 this Act'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 3 of such Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting before the period at the end thereof `, except for subsection
 (b) of the first section of this Act'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following: `There is authorized to be
 appropriated $250,000 to carry out subsection (b) of the first section of
 this Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.