 
--H.R.5708--
H.R.5708
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize acquisition of certain real property for the Library of Congress,
and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ACQUISITION OF SPECIAL FACILITIES CENTER.
 The Architect of the Capitol may acquire on behalf of the United States
 Government by purchase, condemnation, transfer, or otherwise (A) all publicly
 or privately owned real property in lot 51 in square 869 in the District of
 Columbia, as that lot appears on the records in the office of the Surveyor of
 the District of Columbia on August 1, 1990, extending to the outer face of
 the curbs of the square in which it is located and including all alleys or
 parts of alleys and streets within the lot lines and curb lines surrounding
 such real property, and (B) improvements to such real property.
SEC. 2. REPAIR, ALTERATION, AND EXEMPTIONS.
 (a) REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS- The first section of the Act of June 29, 1922
 (42 Stat. 715; 2 U.S.C. 141), is amended by striking `the Library Building and
 on the grounds,' and inserting `the Library of Congress buildings and grounds
 (as defined in section 11 of the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167(j))),'.
 (b) REPAIR AND ALTERATION STANDARDS- The property and improvements acquired
 under section 1 shall be repaired and altered, to the maximum extent feasible
 as determined by the Architect of the Capitol, in compliance with one of
 the nationally recognized model building codes and with other applicable
 nationally recognized codes (including electrical codes, fire and life
 safety codes, plumbing codes, as determined appropriate by the Architect),
 using the latest edition of the nationally recognized codes referred to in
 this paragraph.
 (c) LIBRARY BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS- Section 11 of the Act entitled `An Act
 relating to the policing of the buildings of the Library of Congress',
 approved August 4, 1950 (64 Stat. 412; 2 U.S.C. 167j), is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c) For the purposes of this Act, the term `Library of Congress buildings
 and grounds' shall include (1) all real property in lot 51 in square 869 in
 the District of Columbia, as that lot appears on the records in the office of
 the Surveyor of the District of Columbia on August 1, 1990, extending to the
 outer face of the curbs of the square in which it is located and including
 all alleys or parts of alleys and streets within the lot lines and curb lines
 surrounding such real property, and (2) improvements to such real property.'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsections (a) and (b) and the amendment made by
 subsection (c) shall take effect on the date the Architect of the Capitol
 acquires the property and improvements described in section 1.
SEC. 3. PENALTY.
 Section 8 of the Act entitled `An Act relating to the policing of the
 buildings of the Library of Congress', approved August 4, 1950 (64 Stat. 412;
 2 U.S.C. 167g), is amended--
 (1) by striking `shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more
 than sixty days, or both,' and inserting `commits a Class B misdemeanor,'; and
 (2) by striking `the period of imprisonment for the offense may be not more
 than five years.' and inserting `the person commits a Class D felony.'.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION.
 There is authorized to be appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol
 $5,000,000 for carrying out the purposes of this Act, to remain available
 until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.