 
--H.R.1485--
H.R.1485
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To direct the sale of certain lands in Clark County, Nevada, to meet national
defense and other needs; to authorize the sale of certain other lands in
Clark County, Nevada; and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Apex Project, Nevada Land Transfer and
 Authorization Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND DEFINITIONS.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds the following--
 (1) The only two domestic producers of ammonium perchlorate (`AP'),
 a principal component of solid rocket fuel essential to the Nation's
 defense and space programs, are Pacific Engineering and Production Company,
 Incorporated (`Pepcon') and Kerr-McGee Chemical Corporation (`Kerr-McGee'),
 which established production facilities near the city of Henderson in
 Clark County, Nevada (`the county'). On May 4, 1988, an explosion destroyed
 the Pepcon plant, thereby substantially reducing the Nation's capacity to
 produce solid rocket fuel.
 (2) A commission subsequently appointed by the Governor of Nevada to
 examine the adequacy of existing policies and regulations pertaining to the
 manufacture and storage of certain industrial materials has recommended new
 policies which imply the desirability of relocating both some of Kerr-McGee's
 AP production and storage facilities and also other industries to a less
 densely populated part of Clark County, but within reasonable distance of
 the present work force.
 (3) The Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space
 Administration have identified an urgent need to replace the domestic
 ammonium perchlorate production capacity lost in the Pepcon accident and to
 firm up existing production capabilities in order to meet current shortages
 and long-term requirements.
 (4) The county has identified as the preferred site for the relocation of
 Kerr-McGee's AP facilities approximately thirty-seven hundred acres of land
 (`Kerr-McGee Site'), which is part of approximately twenty-one thousand
 acres of Federal lands, identified by the county as the `Apex Site', managed
 by the Bureau of Land Management (`BLM'). The county has advised the BLM it
 would like to purchase some or all of the lands comprising the Apex Site for
 development as a heavy-industry use zone, to locate potentially hazardous
 facilities. Orderly and appropriate development of such an industrial zone,
 in a manner consistent with public safety, protection of environmental
 and other values, and relevant State and Federal policies and programs
 (including the national defense) would be preferable to development of the
 lands comprising the Apex Site in an unplanned manner.
 (5) The Federal lands comprising the Apex Site are presently classified
 for retention and multiple use by the applicable BLM land use plan. At the
 time the current land use plan was developed, disposal of large parcels
 of land immediately outside the Las Vegas Valley was not identified as a
 possibility. However, the expeditious transfer of the Kerr-McGee Site to
 Clark County for resale to Kerr-McGee, and transfer of necessary associated
 rights-of-way to the county, will serve an important national need which
 cannot be served as well on non-Federal land in Clark County and which
 outweighs other existing and potential public uses of the lands which would
 be served by maintaining them in Federal ownership.
 (6) Kerr-McGee has prepared an environmental assessment on the proposed
 transfer of the Kerr-McGee Site and supporting utility and transportation
 rights-of-way, dated April 1989, entitled `Apex Nevada Land Transfer Proposal
 and Proposed Kerr-McGee Ammonium Perchlorate Facility', which identifies
 certain environmental impacts likely to result from the transfer of the
 site and supporting rights-of-way to the county which would be mitigated
 with various control measures. Any transfer by the United States of lands
 within the Apex Site should be conditioned upon provision of all measures
 appropriate to prevent or mitigate adverse environmental impacts.
 (7) Lands within the Apex Site provide habitat for the desert tortoise. The
 BLM, recognizing that the desert tortoise habitat found in Nevada, and
 elsewhere, is being significantly affected, especially within the Mojave
 Desert, by the rapid development associated with industrial growth and by
 other human activities, has prepared a rangewide plan for desert tortoise
 habitat management on the public lands. The goal of this plan is to ensure
 that viable desert tortoise populations will continue to exist through
 cooperative resource management aimed at protecting the species and its
 habitat. The BLM's implementation of this plan should be accelerated.
 (8) Lands within the Apex Site are close to Nellis Air Force Base and to
 public lands withdrawn for use by the Air Force as part of the Nellis Air
 Force Range complex. Nellis Air Force Base is the most active military
 airfield in the United States (with many of the aircraft using the base
 carrying live ordnance) and, together with the Nellis Air Force Range,
 constitutes a unique facility that plays a vital role in maintaining
 the combat capability of the Air Force's tactical units. Maintaining
 the capability of Nellis Air Force Base to fulfill its mission must be a
 central part of any decisions concerning future use or disposition of the
 lands within the Apex Site.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this Act, the following terms shall have the
 following meanings--
 (1) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (2) The term `lands' means lands and interests therein.
 (3) The term `county' or `Clark County' means Clark County, Nevada.
 (4) The term `Kerr-McGee' means the Kerr-McGee Chemical Corporation.
 (5) The term `BLM's Desert Tortoise Plan' means the plan entitled `Desert
 Tortoise Habitat Management on the Public Lands: A Rangewide Plan', approved
 November 14, 1988.
 (6) All other terms shall have the same meaning as such terms have when
 used in the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
SEC. 3. KERR-McGEE SITE TRANSFER.
 (a) DIRECTED SALE- Subject to all valid existing rights, the Secretary is
 directed to convey the public lands comprising approximately thirty-seven
 hundred acres designated as `Area 1' and `Area 2' within the `Kerr-McGee
 Site' on the map entitled `Apex Heavy-Industry Use Zone' dated May 1989,
 to Clark County, Nevada, solely for sale to Kerr-McGee, in return for
 payment of the lands' appraised fair market value, as determined by the
 Secretary in accordance with established appraisal practices. However, the
 lands within Area 1 shall not be conveyed unless and until the Secretary
 has received a written commitment from Clark County and Kerr-McGee that
 whichever is offered the opportunity to purchase the lands within Area 2
 will do so at such lands' appraised fair market value when the lands are
 offered pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.
 (b) RIGHTS-OF-WAY- Subject to all valid existing rights, the Secretary
 is directed to grant utility and transportation rights-of-way to Clark
 County for the connection of existing electric power, water, natural gas,
 telephone, railroad and highway facilities to the Kerr-McGee Site, all as
 generally depicted on the map entitled `Rights-of-Way and Proposed Access and
 Utility Locations' dated May 1989. Each right-of-way shall not exceed two
 hundred feet in width and shall not preclude the Secretary from permitting
 other uses of the affected lands compatible with the uses for which such
 rights-of-way are granted. Clark County may permit other parties to use
 the lands covered by such rights-of-way for some or all of the purposes
 specified in this subsection.
 (c) TIMING, ETC- (1) Subject to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the
 Secretary shall offer to sell to Clark County the lands within the Kerr-McGee
 Site depicted as Area 1 and shall offer to grant the rights-of-way described
 in subsection (b) of this section to Clark County within thirty days of
 the date of enactment of this Act, but the Secretary's duty to transfer
 such lands and rights-of-way shall not lapse if they are not offered to the
 county within the prescribed time. Such sale shall be for fair market value,
 as determined by the Secretary in accordance with established procedures
 of the BLM. If Clark County fails to purchase such lands within sixty days
 of receiving the Secretary's offer, the lands and rights-of-way shall be
 offered to Kerr-McGee for sale and grant on the same basis, and subject to
 Kerr-McGee's entering into an agreement with the Secretary similar to the
 agreement described in section 6(a). If within sixty days after such offer,
 Kerr-McGee fails to purchase such lands, the lands shall become subject to
 the authorization provided for in section 4 of this Act, and the total acreage
 authorized for disposition under this section shall be increased accordingly.
 (2) If the lands within Area 1 are purchased pursuant to paragraph (1)
 of this subsection, upon completion of a survey of the boundaries of Area
 2, the Secretary shall offer to sell to the purchaser of Area 1 the lands
 within Area 2 at their appraised fair market value, as determined by the
 Secretary in accordance with established procedures of the BLM.
 (3) Each right-of-way granted pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to rental payments and other conditions provided for in applicable law,
 including the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and this
 Act. The amounts received by the United States from sales of lands covered
 by this section shall be distributed pursuant to laws generally applicable
 to sales of public lands.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION FOR ADDITIONAL TRANSFERS.
 (a) SALE AUTHORIZED- Notwithstanding any BLM land use plan calling for
 retention of the Apex Site and notwithstanding the reporting requirements
 and competitive bidding requirements of section 203 of the Federal Land
 Policy and Management Act of 1976, the Secretary is authorized, subject to
 any other requirements of law, including the conditions of this section, to
 sell to Clark County some or all of the lands within the Apex Site, depicted
 on the map referred to in section 3(a), that lie outside the boundaries of the
 Kerr-McGee Site (as depicted on such map) for fair market value as determined
 by the Secretary in accordance with established appraisal procedures.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS- If, no later than one year after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the county demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
 Secretary that the county has designated the lands comprising the Apex Site
 as a heavy-use industrial zone, pursuant to applicable laws of the State of
 Nevada, and has adopted a plan for the development of some or all of such
 lands accordingly, the Secretary shall offer to enter into a land sales
 agreement with Clark County for the transfer of some or all of such lands
 to the county by one or more direct sales pursuant to this section over a
 period not to exceed ten years. Such agreement shall provide for purchasers
 of parcels of the lands within the Apex Site, with any specific parcels to
 be sold to be determined by the Secretary, in response to proposals by the
 county and after consultation with the Secretary of the Air Force concerning
 any potential impact of any such sale on activities associated with Nellis
 Air Force Base. The purchase price for each parcel shall be its appraised
 fair market value at the time of the sale, but any agreement between the
 county and the Secretary under this section shall provide that if the
 county sells any such parcel or portion thereof, the county shall pay to
 the United States an amount equal to 50 per centum of the amount by which
 the amount received by the county exceeds 110 per centum of the sum equal
 to the total amounts expended by the county for acquisition of such parcel
 or portion thereof, for improvements to such parcel or portion thereof,
 and for preparation of such parcel or portion thereof for sale.
 (c) RIGHTS-OF-WAY- Pursuant to applicable law, the Secretary may grant
 Clark County such rights-of-way on public lands as may be necessary to
 support the development as a heavy-use industrial zone of some or all of
 the lands identified in subsection (a).
 (d) PROCEDURES- Except as specified in subsection (a) nothing in this section
 shall relieve the Secretary from compliance with all laws applicable either
 to the transfer of some or all of the lands identified in subsection (a)
 or to the granting of any rights-of-way, including, but not limited to,
 the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Unless otherwise specified in
 this Act, sales of lands pursuant to this section shall be made and patents
 or other documents of conveyance shall be issued as if such sales were made
 pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
 (e) WITHDRAWAL, ETC- (1) Subject to all valid existing rights, the lands
 within the Apex Site (depicted on the map referred to in section 3(a)) are
 hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the public
 land laws, including the mining law, and from operation of the mineral leasing
 and geothermal leasing laws, but shall remain available for disposition
 under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) and for
 sale under this Act or other applicable law. This withdrawal shall continue
 in effect until a parcel of land affected by such withdrawal is sold, if
 such sale includes the right, title and interest of the United States in
 the minerals in such parcel. If the county or another party to whom such
 parcel is offered, elects not to seek to purchase the minerals in any such
 parcel, such parcel shall remain withdrawn from entry, location, or patent
 under the mining laws but after receipt by the Secretary of notification
 that the county or other offeree does not seek to purchase such minerals,
 such parcel shall be open to operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal
 leasing laws. The withdrawal made by this subsection shall continue for twelve
 years after the date of enactment of this Act or until otherwise provided
 by an Act of Congress enacted after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) Before offering any parcel for sale pursuant to an agreement with the
 county under this section, the Secretary (in addition to other requirements
 of law) shall consider whether development of such parcel as part of a
 heavy-use industrial zone, including any appropriation mitigation measures,
 would be inconsistent with BLM's Desert Tortoise Plan.
 (f) COGENERATION PROJECT- Notwithstanding any withdrawal of the Apex
 Site (depicted on the map referred to in section 3(a)), and subject to
 the provisions of applicable law, the Secretary may grant to holders of
 valid existing mill-site claims on such lands such rights-of-way as may be
 necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities
 required in the cogeneration of electricity at the site of existing
 mill-site operations on such claims, unless and until the land subject to
 such claims is transferred out of Federal ownership. No such grant shall
 be made unless and until all environmental studies required in connection
 with such construction, operation, and maintenance have been completed and
 any necessary mitigation measures have been agreed to.
SEC. 5. RESERVATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY CORRIDORS.
 The transfer of lands pursuant to section 4 of this Act shall be subject to
 the reservation to the United States of the right-of-way corridors depicted
 on a map entitled `Right-of-Way Corridors Across the Apex Heavy Industrial
 Zone' dated May 1989. These corridors shall be administered by the Secretary,
 who may grant rights-of-way over, upon, under and through the corridors
 consistent with applicable law. In the administration of such corridors,
 the Secretary shall, so far as feasible, locate rights-of-way so as to
 have the least possible impact on any industrial uses. Nothing in this Act
 shall be construed as restricting the authority of the Secretary, under the
 Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 or other applicable law,
 to reserve or grant any other rights-of-way with respect to such lands,
 in addition to the rights-of-way described on such map.
SEC. 6. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS.
 (a) KERR-MCGEE SITE- The Secretary shall not make the conveyance directed
 by section 3 until Kerr-McGee and Clark County have entered into a written
 agreement with the Secretary whereby Kerr-McGee and the county commit
 to undertake the measures specified in the document identified in section
 2(a)(6) in order to mitigate adverse effects on wildlife and other resources
 and values resulting from the use of such lands for industrial purposes. At
 the request of the Secretary, the Attorney General of the United States
 may bring an appropriate legal action to enforce such agreement.
 (b) BLM REPORTS- (1) No later than one year after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a report as to the
 funds and personnel required to fully implement BLM's Desert Tortoise Plan.
 (2) As soon as possible after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management,
 shall arrange for a class-three soil survey of public lands in Clark County,
 to assist in the implementation in such county of BLM's Desert Tortoise
 Plan and other aspects of the management of the public lands in such county.
 (3) As soon as possible after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 shall invite public proposals for the designation, pursuant to the Federal
 Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, of areas of critical environmental
 concern whose designation would further the implementation of BLM's Desert
 Tortoise Plan or otherwise assist in the protection of resources and values
 of public lands in Nevada. The Secretary shall provide a reasonable period
 for receipt of such proposals, shall evaluate all proposals received,
 and shall take such action thereon as the Secretary considers appropriate.
 (4) As soon as possible after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 shall consider the desirability of restricting or eliminating uses of public
 lands in the Paiute Valley which may conflict with implementation of BLM's
 Desert Tortoise Plan with respect to those lands. No later than one year
 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
 Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 United States Senate a report concerning the results of the Secretary's
 actions pursuant to this paragraph.
 (c) OTHER REPORTS- (1) At the time that the President submits a budget
 request for fiscal year 1991, and annually thereafter for fifteen years,
 the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a statement of the total amounts
 received by the United States as the result of sales of public lands
 described in this Act, and an account of the distribution of such receipts.
 (2) No later than ninety days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary shall evaluate the desirability of acquisition of the lands
 specified in appendix A to the report of the Committee on Interior and
 Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives to accompany
 H.R. 1485 of the One Hundred First Congress (House Report 101-79). Such
 evaluation shall be based solely on the resources and values of such lands
 and the extent to which national policies and programs for management of
 such resources and values would be furthered by such acquisition. Promptly
 after the completion of such evaluation, the Secretary shall report the
 results thereof to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 United States House of Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the United States Senate, and the Representatives and Senators
 from the State of Nevada.
SEC. 7. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.
 As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary shall file maps and legal descriptions of the lands identified
 in sections 3, 4, and 5 with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. Such legal descriptions
 shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except
 that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in such
 legal descriptions. The maps and legal descriptions shall be on file and
 available to public inspection in the offices of the Director of the BLM.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.