 
--H.R.2809--
H.R.2809
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the conveyance of certain lands to the State of California,
and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) in order to protect certain outstanding examples of ponderosa pine,
 sugar pine, and giant sequoia trees located in the North and South Calaveras
 Groves, on the western slope of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, the State of
 California has established the Calaveras Big Trees State Park;
 (2) for similar purposes, the United States has designated certain adjacent
 Federal lands, amounting to approximately 379 acres, as the Calaveras Big
 Trees National Forest; and
 (3) this National Forest (managed as part of the Stanislaus National Forest)
 is the smallest National Forest in the United States and could be more
 appropriately and efficiently managed as part of the Calaveras Big Trees
 State Park.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to improve the management of the
 lands located in the Calaveras Big Trees National Forest, and to protect
 certain examples of ponderosa pine, sugar pine, and giant sequoia trees,
 by unifying the management of the lands in such National Forest and in the
 California Calaveras Big Trees State Park.
SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE.
 (a) CONVEYANCE- Subject to valid existing rights and the provisions of this
 Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
 the `Secretary') is authorized and directed to convey all right, title,
 and interest of the United States in and to lands and interests therein
 within the Calaveras Big Trees National Forest, as generally depicted on
 a map numbered 20435 and dated June 5, 1989, prepared by the California
 Department of Parks and Recreation, to the State of California for inclusion
 within the Calaveras Big Trees State Park.
 (b) MAP AND DESCRIPTION- As soon as practicable after the enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall submit a map and legal description of the
 lands referred to in subsection (a) to the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs of the United States House of Representatives, and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. Such map and legal description
 shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except
 that any clerical or typographical errors in such map or legal description
 may be corrected. The Secretary shall place such map and legal description
 on file, and make them available for public inspection, in the Office of
 the Chief of the Forest Service.
 (c) CONDITIONS OF CONVEYANCE- Conveyance of the lands and interests
 described in subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to the following
 conditions:
 (1) The conveyance shall take place only if within two years after the date
 of enactment of this Act, there is concluded an agreement between the State of
 California and the Secretary whereby the State of California agrees to provide
 to the United States, in exchange for the lands described in subsection (a)
 and pursuant to terms and conditions which the Secretary finds acceptable,
 consideration of approximately equal value. Such consideration shall include
 either lands in California that the Secretary finds suitable for addition
 to, and are contiguous to, one or more units of the National Forest System,
 cash payment, or monetary grants awarded to the United States after June 1,
 1990, or any combination thereof.
 (2) No harvest of timber (except as may be necessary for the control of
 fire, insects, or disease) and no mining, mineral leasing, or geothermal
 exploration or development shall be permitted on such lands;
 (3) Any action by the State of California to convey any portion of such
 lands or interests to any entity other than the United States shall be
 void ab initio and shall result in the reversion to the United States of
 all right, title, and interest in such lands;
 (4) Any action by the State of California to permit the use of any portion
 of such lands for any purpose prohibited by this subsection or any purpose
 incompatible with the continued ability of such lands to support ponderosa
 pine, sugar pine, or giant sequoia trees, shall result in the reversion
 of all right, title, and interest in such lands to the United States. Any
 such lands which revert to the United States shall be incorporated into the
 Stanislaus National Forest and managed to preserve and protect the stands
 of ponderosa pine, sugar pine, and giant sequoia trees located on such lands.
 (5) The Secretary, acting through the Forest Service, shall be afforded by
 appropriate officials of the State of California reasonable opportunities
 to collect seeds from trees located on such lands for scientific or
 silvicultural purposes.
 (6) The Secretary, upon prior notification to the State of California,
 shall be entitled at any time to enter upon such lands for the purpose of
 monitoring the management of such lands and the compliance of the State of
 California with the provisions of this subsection.
 (7) The conveyance shall be subject to the following reservations or
 exceptions:
 (A) existing ditches and canals as authorized by the Act of August 30, 1890
 (43 U.S.C. 945); and
 (B) any existing rights-of-way to provide the United States and its assigns
 access to federally owned lands.
 (d) ENFORCEMENT- Upon the request of the Secretary, the Attorney General
 shall bring any action or take any other steps necessary to enforce the
 provisions of subsection (c) of this section.
 (e) TIMING, VALUE, AND STATUS- (1) Conveyance of lands to the State of
 California pursuant to this Act shall occur when the agreement described
 in paragraph (1) of subsection (c) has been reached. The restrictions
 and conditions specified in paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7)
 of subsection (c) shall be included in the instruments of conveyance of
 lands to the State of California.
 (2) Effective upon the conveyance to the State of California of lands
 described in subsection (a) of this section, or two years after the date of
 enactment of this Act, whichever is sooner, the National Forest designation
 of such lands shall terminate. Any such lands not conveyed to the State of
 California shall thereupon be incorporated into the Stanislaus National
 Forest and managed to preserve and protect the stands of ponderosa pine,
 sugar pine, and giant sequoia trees located on such lands.
 (3) Any lands conveyed to the United States pursuant to this Act shall be
 deemed national forest lands and managed according to the laws governing
 the management of the National Forest System. If any such lands are outside
 existing boundaries of one or more National Forests, the Secretary shall
 modify such boundaries as he deems appropriate to include such lands.
 (4) Values of the respective lands exchanged between the United States and
 the State of California pursuant to this Act shall be of `approximately
 equal value' as that term is defined by regulations implementing the Act
 of January 12, 1983, known as the Small Tracts Act (16 U.S.C. 521c-521i).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.