 
--H.R.3468--
H.R.3468
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Act entitled `An Act to extend the Wetlands Loan Act', to
provide for
the expansion of the Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife Refuge.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Connecticut Coastal Protection Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF REFUGE.
 The Act entitled `An Act to extend the Wetlands Loan Act' (Public Law 98-548;
 98 Stat. 2774) is amended--
 (1) in section 205 by striking `$2,500,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `such sums as may be necessary';
 (2) by redesignating section 205 (as amended by paragraph (1)) as section
 208; and
 (3) by inserting after section 204 the following:
`EXPANSION
 `SEC. 205. The Secretary may acquire for addition to the refuge--
 `(1) approximately 690 acres of land and water known as the Great Meadows
 Marsh, in Stratford, Connecticut;
 `(2) approximately 230 acres of land and water at the Menunketesuck River
 marsh and Menunketesuck Island, in Westbrook, Connecticut; and
 `(3) approximately 80 acres of land and water in the vicinity of Norwalk
 Harbor, Connecticut;
as such lands and waters are depicted on the map entitled `Stewart B. McKinney
NWR Expansion', dated September 1989 and on file with the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service.
`TRANSFER
 `SEC. 206. After the date of the enactment of the Connecticut Coastal
 Protection Act of 1989, the Secretary shall manage the Salt Meadow National
 Wildlife Refuge as an element of the Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife
 Refuge.
`FUTURE EXPANSION
 `SEC. 207. (a) Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary
 may acquire such additional lands for the refuge as the Secretary considers
 appropriate, and may adjust the boundaries of the refuge accordingly. Any
 such acquisition shall be carried out in accordance with all applicable
 laws and without regard to section 203 of this Act.
 `(b) All lands acquired within the vicinity of Long Island Sound in the
 State of Connecticut after the date of the enactment of the Connecticut
 Coastal Protection Act of 1989 for addition to the National Wildlife Refuge
 System shall be managed as part of the Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife
 Refuge.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.