 
--H.R.3834--
H.R.3834
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the National Trails System Act to designate the route from Selma
to Montgomery for study for potential addition to the national trails system.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Selma to Montgomery National Trail Study Act
 of 1989'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that:
 (1) The march from Selma to Montgomery led to the passage of the Voting
 Rights Act of 1965, which achieved the legal right to vote for all Americans.
 (2) Events associated with the march from Selma to Montgomery and from
 what came to be known as `Bloody Sunday' sent shock waves around the world,
 raised the Nation's consciousness and convinced political leaders that the
 time had come for voting rights legislation.
 (3) The designation of the route of the march from Selma to Montgomery
 as a national historic trail will serve as a reminder of the right and
 responsibility of all Americans to fully participate in the election
 processes. It will serve as a reminder that we must be ever vigilant in
 securing our right to vote. It will also give long overdue recognition to the
 men and women who have sacrificed so much for, and dedicated their lives to,
 voting rights for all Americans.
SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF TRAIL FOR STUDY.
 Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (82 Stat. 919; 16
 U.S.C. 1244(c)) is amended by adding the following new paragraph at the
 end thereof:
 `(33) The route from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama traveled by people in a
 march dramatizing the need for voting rights legislation, in March 1965,
 includes Sylvan South Street, Water Avenue, the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and
 Highway 80. The study under this paragraph shall be prepared in accordance
 with subsection (b) of this section, except that it shall be completed and
 submitted to the Congress with recommendations as to the trail's suitability
 for designation not later than 1 year after the enactment of this paragraph.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate;