 
--H.R.3338--
H.R.3338
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey all interest of the United
States in a
fish hatchery to the State of South Carolina, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--FISHERIES AND WILDLIFE PROVISIONS
SECTION 101. CONVEYANCE OF FISH HATCHERY.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to section 2, the
 Secretary of the Interior shall convey, without reimbursement, to the State
 of South Carolina, all the right, title, and interest (including all water
 rights) of the United States in and to the fish hatchery property located
 approximately one and one-half miles southwest of the city limits of the
 city of Cheraw in Chesterfield County, South Carolina, commonly known as the
 `Cheraw State Fish Hatchery' and previously known as the `Cheraw National
 Fish Hatchery', consisting of 206.10 acres, more or less, of land together
 with any improvements and related personal property thereon.
SEC. 102. REVERSIONARY INTEREST IN UNITED STATES.
 The property conveyed pursuant to this Act, including the proceeds from
 the sale of timber or other products, shall be used by the South Carolina
 Wildlife and Marine Resources Department as part of the South Carolina
 Fisheries Resource Management Program, and if it is used for any other
 purpose all right, title, and interest in and to such property shall revert
 to the United States.
SEC. 103. ANADROMOUS FISH RESEARCH LABORATORY.
 The Northeast Anadromous Fish Research Laboratory located at Turners Falls,
 Massachusetts, shall be known and designated as the `Silvio O. Conte
 Anadromous Fish Research Center'.
SEC. 104. ESTABLISHMENT OF FISHERY RESOURCES.
 (a) The Secretary is authorized and directed to conduct a feasibility
 study on establishing a Federal fish hatchery in McDowell County, West
 Virginia. Conditioned upon the completion of the feasibility study and the
 location of a suitable site and water supply, the Secretary is authorized
 to construct a Federal fish hatchery as provided for in the feasibility
 study. The study shall be undertaken by the United States Fish and Wildlife
 Service in consultation with the State of West Virginia.
 (b) If a fish hatchery is constructed in McDowell County, West Virginia,
 pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the fish hatchery shall be
 known as the `Carl R. Sullivan National Fish Hatchery'.
 (c) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated the sum of $2,500,000 to
 carry out the provisions of this section.
SEC. 105. REDESIGNATION OF NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE FORENSICS LABORATORY.
 (a) REDESIGNATION- The United States Fish and Wildlife Service facility
 located in Ashland, Oregon, and known as the National Fish and Wildlife
 Forensics Laboratory, is designated and shall be known as the `Clark R. Bavin
 National Fish and Wildlife Forensics Laboratory'.
 (b) REFERENCES- Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or
 other record of the United States to the National Fish and Wildlife Forensics
 Laboratory referred to in subsection (a) is deemed to be a reference to the
 `Clark R. Bavin National Fish and Wildlife Forensics Laboratory'.
SEC. 106. REAUTHORIZATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT OF 1980.
 Section 11 of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2910)
 is amended by striking `and 1990' and inserting `1990, 1991, and 1992'.
SEC. 107. ESTABLISHMENT OF WALLKILL RIVER NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Wallkill River National
 Wildlife Refuge Act'.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Wallkill River and associated riverine wetland habitat dividing the
 townships of Hardyston, Wantage, and Vernon, New Jersey, has been identified
 as one of the few high-quality waterfowl concentration areas remaining in
 the northwestern portion of the State and a valuable wildlife habitat used
 by a variety of migratory birds including waterfowl, raptors, passerines,
 and marsh and water birds;
 (2) the Wallkill River area--
 (A) provides a migratory and nesting habitat for Atlantic Flyway migratory
 black duck populations;
 (B) has been identified by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service as
 an important black duck habitat; and
 (C) is a high priority of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan;
 (3) the Wallkill River area is home to several New Jersey State-listed rare
 and endangered plant and animal species; and
 (4) designation of the Wallkill River area as a national wildlife refuge would
 significantly aid to the conservation of wildlife and other natural resources.
 (c) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `refuge' means the Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge;
 (2) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (3) the term `selection area' means the lands, wetlands, and waters of the
 Wallkill River in the State of New Jersey.
 (d) ESTABLISHMENT OF REFUGE- (1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire
 approximately 7,500 acres of lands and waters, as depicted upon a map
 entitled `Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge', dated March 1990, and
 available for inspection in appropriate offices of the United States Fish
 and Wildlife Service in the State of New Jersey and elsewhere.
 (2) The Secretary may make such minor revisions in the boundaries designated
 under subsection (a) as may be appropriate to carry out this Act or to
 facilitate the acquisition of property within the refuge.
 (3) The Secretary shall establish the refuge by publication of a notice in
 the Federal Register and publications of local circulation when sufficient
 property has been acquired within the boundary of the refuge to constitute
 an area that can be effectively managed as a national wildlife refuge.
 (e) PURPOSES- The primary purposes for which the refuge is established are--
 (1) to preserve and enhance the refuge's lands and waters in a manner that
 will conserve the natural diversity of fish, wildlife, plants, and their
 habitats for present and future generations;
 (2) to conserve and enhance populations of fish, wildlife, and plants
 within the refuge, including populations of black ducks and other waterfowl,
 raptors, passerines, and marsh and water birds;
 (3) to protect and enhance the water quality of aquatic habitats within
 the refuge;
 (4) to fulfill international treaty obligations of the United States with
 respect to fish and wildlife and their habitats; and
 (5) to provide opportunities for compatible scientific research, environmental
 education, and fish and wildlife-oriented recreation.
 (f) ADMINISTRATION- (1) The Secretary shall administer all lands, waters,
 and interests therein acquired under this Act in accordance with the National
 Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.).
 (2) The Secretary may utilize such other statutory authority as is available
 to the Secretary for the conservation and development of wildlife and natural
 resources, the development of recreational opportunities, and interpretive
 education, as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this Act.
 (g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Department of the Interior--
 (1) such sums as are necessary for the acquisition of lands and waters
 designated pursuant to section 4(a); and
 (2) such sums as are necessary for the development, operation, and maintenance
 of the refuge.
SEC. 108. ESTABLISHMENT OF BAYOU COCODRIE NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) thousands of acres of bottomland hardwoods are being cleared each year
 in the Mississippi River Delta;
 (2) these forested wetlands represent one of the most valuable and
 productive wildlife habitat types in the United States, and have extremely
 high recreational value for hunters, fishermen, birdwatchers, nature
 photographers, and others;
 (3) the Bayou Cocodrie area is a bottomland hardwood swamp which borders
 over one hundred and fifty species of birds and many other types of wildlife,
 including several species threatened with extinction, such as the Louisiana
 population of black bears;
 (4) the Bayou Cocodrie area includes some of the least disturbed bottomland
 hardwood forest in the Southeast and significantly contributes to the
 biodiversity in the region;
 (5) similar habitat located elsewhere is threatened by disruptive practices
 and/or conversion to other uses; and
 (6) this area is deserving of inclusion in the National Wildlife Refuge
 System.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `refuge' means the Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge; and
 (2) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through
 the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 (c) ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REFUGE- (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed
 to acquire approximately eighteen thousand acres of lands and waters, as
 depicted upon a map entitled `Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge',
 dated February 1990 and available for inspection in appropriate offices of
 the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 (2) The Secretary may make such minor adjustments in the boundaries designated
 under subsection (a) as may be appropriate to facilitate acquisition of
 property within the refuge or to otherwise carry out the purposes of this Act.
 (3) When sufficient property within the boundaries has been acquired
 to constitute an area that can be effectively managed as a refuge, the
 Secretary shall establish the refuge by publishing a notice to that effect
 in the Federal Register.
 (d) REFUGE PURPOSE- The Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge is established
 and shall be managed for the purposes of--
 (1) conservation and enhancement of wetlands;
 (2) general wildlife management as a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge
 System, including management for migratory birds; and
 (3) fish and wildlife-oriented recreational activities.
 (e) ADMINISTRATION- (1) The Secretary shall administer all lands, waters,
 and interests therein acquired under this Act in accordance with the
 provisions of the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966
 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee).
 (2) The Secretary may utilize such additional statutory authority as may be
 available to him for conservation and development of wildlife and natural
 resources, water supplies and water control structures, outdoor recreational
 activities, including hunting and fishing, and interpretive education as
 he deems appropriate to carry out this Act.
 (3) In managing the refuge, the Secretary shall manage an amount of refuge
 woodlands as a contiguous mature forest sufficient to benefit the species of
 passerine birds that occupy this type of habitat. The Secretary shall give
 special consideration to accomplishing this objective through use of his
 current authority, including his authority to establish Research Natural
 Areas within the refuge.
 (4) The Secretary shall permit access to, and the development of, reserved
 non-Federal mineral interests within the refuge. Any such access and
 development shall be carried out only in accordance with a special use
 permit issued by the Secretary which contains such economically reasonable
 terms and conditions as deemed necessary--
 (A) to protect the fish and wildlife resources of, and their habitat in,
 the affected refuge from any significant adverse effects; and
 (B) to minimize, to the maximum extent possible, any adverse effects upon
 such resources and their habitat. Any term or condition imposed by the
 Secretary under this subsection is in addition to any other requirement
 that is imposed under other applicable Federal or State law.
The special use permit is not intended to unreasonably restrain established
or future oil and gas exploration, development and production activities or
to result in the taking of property interests of the non-Federal owner.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 109. TRANSFER OF LANDS.
 (a) REMOVAL FROM NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE- Pursuant to the requirements
 of section 4(a)(3) of the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration
 Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd(a)(3)), the approximately 44,550 acres of land
 designated the Carolina Sandhills Wildlife Management Area and known as the
 Sand Hills State Forest, as described in Executive Order Numbered 8510, dated
 August 8, 1940, are hereby removed from the National Wildlife Refuge System.
 (b) TRANSFER OF LANDS- Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
 subsection (f), the Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to
 transfer the title, rights, and interest to the lands identified in subsection
 (a) of this section to the South Carolina Commission of Forestry, an agency
 of the State of South Carolina, for use of public purposes as a multiple
 use State forest providing sustained yield production of forest products,
 public recreation, wildlife benefits, and demonstration and education
 projects by the South Carolina Commission of Forestry.
 (c) RIGHT OF REVERSION- If--
 (1) the Secretary determines that the South Carolina Commission of Forestry
 is not in compliance with any of such terms and conditions of transfer;
 (2) at any time the land ceases to be used for public purposes (except as
 provided in subsection (d) of this section); or
 (3) the South Carolina Commission of Forestry no longer desires to own
 or operate the Sand Hills State Forest, the land transferred pursuant to
 subsection (b) of this section shall revert to the United States, to be
 managed as part of the National Wildlife Refuge System.
 (d) ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL LANDS- (1) Subject to the provisions of
 paragraph (2) of this subsection, the South Carolina Commission of Forestry
 may acquire tracts of land within or adjacent to the boundaries of the
 transferred land by exchange or sale of parcels of transferred land, with
 the proceeds of any such sale being designated for such acquisition.
 (2) The acquisition authorized by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
 be subject to the following conditions:
 (A) The South Carolina Commission of Forestry shall provide notification
 to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service prior to any such acquisition.
 (B) The South Carolina Commission of Forestry has determined prior to
 such acquisition that such acquisition is in the best interest of the
 public purposes of the State of South Carolina and is necessary in order
 to facilitate efficient management and administration of the Sand Hills
 State Forest area.
 (e) REPEAL OF EXECUTIVE ORDER- Executive Order Numbered 8510, dated August
 8, 1940, is repealed as of the date the lands identified in subsection (a)
 of this section are transferred to the South Carolina Commission of Forestry.
 (f) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The transfer of lands authorized in subsection
 (b) of this section shall be conditioned upon the South Carolina Commission
 of Forestry--
 (1) managing the transferred lands for the benefit of such endangered
 and threatened species of plants or animals which may be present there,
 and particularly in accordance with the objectives of the Recovery Plan
 for the Red Cockaded Woodpecker, and any amendments to such plan;
 (2) consulting with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service regarding
 the impacts of its management practices upon endangered and threatened
 species in the transferred lands under the provisions of section 7(a)(2)
 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), as if the South
 Carolina Commission of Forestry were a Federal agency;
 (3) entering into and abiding by an agreement with the United States Fish
 and Wildlife Service to provide to the Carolina Sandhills National Wildlife
 Refuge at no cost--
 (A) basic forest fire protection services (including presuppression,
 detection, and initial attack of wildfires) for a period of 50 years from the
 date of transfer subject to the condition that the United States shall pay
 the South Carolina Commission of Forestry the actual costs of any wildfire
 suppression activities after a 12-hour period from the initial attack on
 the fire;
 (B) prescribed burning services as requested, up to a maximum of 5,000
 acres annually, for a period of 5 years from the date of transfer, subject
 to smoke management and other related regulations in effect at the time of
 the request, and contingent upon the South Carolina Commission of Forestry
 retaining the legal and physical capability to perform the service; and
 (C) reforestation services for converting approximately 2,300 acres of slash
 pine plantation to  more desirable species, as determined by the Refuge,
 in approximately equal installments over a period not to exceed 10 years
 from the date of transfer.
SEC. 110. NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE FOUNDATION ESTABLISHMENT ACT AMENDMENTS
OF 1990.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `National Fish and Wildlife
 Foundation Establishment Act Amendments of 1990'.
 (b) ELIMINATION OF CAP ON SALARIES- Section 3(g)(2)(A) of the National
 Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3702(g)(2)(A))
 is amended by striking `rates, except that no individual so appointed may
 receive pay in excess of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade
 GS-18 of the General Schedule.', and inserting `rates.'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 10 of the National Fish and
 Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3709) is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department
 of the Interior not to exceed $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, not to
 exceed $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and not to exceed $25,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993.
 `(b) USE OF AMOUNTS APPROPRIATED- (1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and
 (3), amounts appropriated under this section shall be made available to
 the Foundation for use for matching, in whole or in part, contributions
 (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the Foundation by
 private persons and State and local government agencies.
 `(2) No Federal funds authorized under this section shall be used by the
 Foundation for administrative expenses of the Foundation, including for
 salaries, travel and transportation expenses, and other overhead expenses.'.
SEC. 111. NEW ENGLAND FISHERY RESOURCES RESTORATION ACT OF 1990.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `New England Fishery
 Resources Restoration Act of 1990'.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are to--
 (1) ensure timely and effective implementation of restoration plans and
 programs for Atlantic salmon and other fishery resources of selected river
 systems in New England;
 (2) complete a study of fish passage impediments and requirements on small
 streams and rivers in New England; and
 (3) develop an inventory of important fish and wildlife habitat and other
 natural areas of river basins in New England.
 (c) IMPLEMENTATION OF FISHERY RESOURCE RESTORATION PLANS- The Director of
 the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, hereinafter referred to as the
 Director, in consultation with the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries of
 the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall formulate, establish
 and implement programs to restore and maintain nationally significant,
 interjurisdictional fishery resources originating in New England river
 systems, including the Connecticut, Thames, Pawcatuck, Merrimack, Saco,
 Androscoggin, Kennebec, Sheepscot, Duck Trap, St. George, Penobscot,
 Union, Narraguagus, Pleasant, Machias, Dennys, St. Croix, Meduxnekeag and
 Aroostock and their tributaries. These programs shall be in accordance with
 the schedule and responsibilities established in comprehensive basin-wide
 restoration plans prepared by the Director in cooperation with State,
 local, and other entities involved and interested in the conservation and
 management of the affected fishery resources. Preparation and periodic
 revision of restoration plans, and their implementation, shall be based
 on a Memorandum of Agreement for each restoration program which shall be
 entered into by the Director and cooperating entities. The Director shall
 prepare and submit to the House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
 and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works an annual report
 documenting activities undertaken and accomplishment including an assessment
 achieved in fulfillment of this section, of the prognosis for restoration
 of each of the stocks and species involved.
 (d) FISH PASSAGE STUDY- The Director shall conduct a study to identify
 impediments to upstream and downstream passage of fish in rivers and streams
 in the New England States due to dams that are not licensed by the Federal
 Energy Regulatory Commission or other human-caused obstructions. In addition,
 the study shall identify actions needed to alleviate those impediments
 where desirable and feasible. The study shall include, but not be limited
 to, identifying--
 (1) all dams not licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and
 other human-caused obstructions on New England rivers and streams where
 construction of upstream or downstream fish passage facilities or their
 removal would benefit fishery resources, including an estimate of the degree
 of benefits expected; and
 (2) the proposed nature and size and estimated cost of appropriate fish
 passage facilities or other actions determined to be necessary and feasible
 or each dam or other obstruction identified in response to paragraph (1).
The Director shall provide notice to the public of the extent and nature of
the study by publication of such information in major newspapers in the region
and by other appropriate means. Within three years of the date of enactment
of this Act, the Director shall submit a report containing the findings,
conclusions and recommendations of the study to the House Committee on Merchant
Marine and Fisheries and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.
 (e) NEW ENGLAND RIVERS FISH AND WILDLIFE INVENTORY- The Director shall
 inventory the natural values of river basins in New England, including
 the Connecticut, Pawcatuck, Acushnet, North and South (in Plymouth County,
 Massachusetts), Charles, Merrimack, Saco, Androscoggin, Kennebec, Penobscot,
 Union, St. Croix, and Aroostock Rivers and their tributaries, and identify
 fish and wildlife habitat in most need of protection or where public access to
 the rivers should be provided. In addition, the Director shall, in cooperation
 with appropriate State agencies and local governments and after providing
 notice and opportunity for public comment, identify appropriate public or
 private measures for providing the necessary protection or access for each
 area included in the inventory. Within two years of the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Director shall submit a report containing the findings,
 conclusions, and recommendations of the inventory and assessment to the
 House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries and the Senate Committee
 on Environment and Public Works.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Director--
 (1) $5,000,000 per year for fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995
 to implement fishery resource restoration plans and programs, except for
 activities related to the design and construction of fish passage facilities,
 as directed by subsection (c);
 (2) $500,000 per year for fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to conduct the
 study required under subsection (d); and
 (3) $500,000 to conduct the inventory and assessment required under section
 (e).
SEC. 112. NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS.
 The North American Wetlands Conservation Act (Public Law 101-233) is amended--
 (1) in section 4(a)(1)(A) by inserting after `Service' and before the
 period `, who shall be the responsible Federal official for ensuring
 Council compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.)';
 (2) in section 4(a)(1) by adding at the end thereof the following sentence:
 `The provisions of Public Law 92-463, as amended, shall not apply to the
 Council.';
 (3) in section 4(f) by inserting after `public' and before the period `,
 and the Chairman shall take appropriate steps to provide adequate notice
 to the public of the time and place of such meetings'; and
 (4) in section 5(b) by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence:
`Solely for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), recommendations by the Council for carrying out wetlands
conservation projects under section 6(a) of this Act shall be considered
Federal actions requiring the preparation of environmental assessments or,
where appropriate, environmental impact statements.'.
SEC. 113. TENSAS RIVER NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
 `The final paragraph of the portion of Chapter IV providing supplemental
 appropriations for the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, of
 Public Law 98-63, (97 Stat. 314) is amended by inserting at the end thereof:
 `, or acquired by any person since June 28, 1980.'.
TITLE II--ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Pollution Prosecution Act of 1990'.
SEC. 202. EPA OFFICE OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION.
 (a) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter
 referred to as the `Administrator') shall increase the number of criminal
 investigators assigned to the Office of Criminal Investigations by
 such numbers as may be necessary to assure that the number of criminal
 investigators assigned to the office--
 (1) for the period October 1, 1991, through September 30, 1992, is not less
 than 72;
 (2) for the period October 1, 1992, through September 30, 1993, is not less
 than 110;
 (3) for the period October 1, 1993, through September 30, 1994, is not less
 than 123;
 (4) for the period October 1, 1994, through September 30, 1995, is not less
 than 160;
 (5) beginning October 1, 1995, is not less than 200.
 (b) For fiscal year 1991 and in each of the following 4 fiscal years,
 the Administrator shall, during each such fiscal year, provide increasing
 numbers of additional support staff to the Office of Criminal Investigations.
 (c) The head of the Office of Criminal Investigations shall be a position
 in the competitive service as defined in 2102 of title 5 U.S.C. or a career
 reserve position as defined in 3132(A) of title 5 U.S.C. and the head of
 such office shall report directly, without intervening review or approval,
 to the Assistant Administrator for Enforcement.
SEC. 203. CIVIL INVESTIGATORS.
 The Administrator, as soon as practicable following the date of the
 enactment of this Act, but no later than September 30, 1991, shall increase
 by fifty the number of civil investigators assigned to assist the Office of
 Enforcement in developing and prosecuting civil and administrative actions
 and carrying out its other functions.
SEC. 204. NATIONAL TRAINING INSTITUTE.
 The Administrator shall, as soon as practicable but no later than September
 30, 1991 establish within the Office of Enforcement the National Enforcement
 Training Institute. It shall be the function of the Institute, among others,
 to train Federal, State, and local lawyers, inspectors, civil and criminal
 investigators, and technical experts in the enforcement of the Nation's
 environmental laws.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION.
 For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, there is
 authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency
 $13,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $18,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $26,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and
 $33,000,000 for fiscal year 1995.
TITLE III--REGIONAL MARINE RESEARCH PROGRAMS
SEC. 301. REGIONAL MARINE RESEARCH PROGRAMS.
 The Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act (33 U.S.C. 1401 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new title:
`TITLE IV--REGIONAL MARINE RESEARCH PROGRAMS
`PURPOSES
 `SEC. 401. The purpose of this title is to establish regional research
 programs, under effective Federal oversight, to--
 `(1) set priorities for regional marine and coastal research in support
 of efforts to safeguard the water quality and ecosystem health of each
 region; and
 `(2) carry  out such research through grants and improved coordination.
`definitions
 `SEC. 402. As used in this title, the term--
 `(1) `Board' means any Regional Marine Research board established pursuant
 to section 403(a);
 `(2) `Federal agency' means any department, agency, or other instrumentality
 of the Federal Government, including any independent agency or establishment
 of the Federal Government and any government corporation;
 `(3) `local government' means any city, town, borough, county, parish,
 district, or other public body which is a political subdivision of a State
 and which is created pursuant to State law;
 `(4) `marine and coastal waters' means estuaries, waters of the estuarine
 zone, including wetlands, any other waters seaward of the historic height
 of tidal influence, the territorial seas, the contiguous zone, and the ocean;
 `(5) `nonprofit organization' means any organization, association, or
 institution described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
 1954 which is exempt from taxation pursuant to  section 501(a) of such Code;
 `(6) `region' means 1 of the 9 regions described in section 403(a); and
 `(7) `State' means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
 Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth
 of the Northern Mariana Islands.
`regional marine research boards
 `SEC. 403. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- A Regional Marine Research board shall be
 established for each of the following  regions:
 `(1) the Gulf of Maine region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters
 off the State of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts (north of Cape Cod);
 `(2) the greater New York bight region, comprised of the marine and coastal
 waters off the States of Massachusetts (south of Cape Cod), Rhode Island,
 Connecticut, New York, and New Jersey, from Cape Cod to Cape May;
 `(3) the mid-Atlantic region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters off
 the States of New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina,
 from Cape May to Cape Fear;
 `(4) the South Atlantic region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters
 off the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida,
 from Cape Fear to the Florida Keys, including the marine and coastal waters
 off Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands;
 `(5) the Gulf of Mexico region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters
 off the States of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas,
 along the Gulf coast from the Florida Keys to the Mexican border;
 `(6) the California region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters off
 the State of California, from Point Reyes to the Mexican border;
 `(7) the North Pacific region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters
 off the States of California, Oregon, and Washington, from Point Reyes  to
 the Canadian border;
 `(8) the Alaska region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters off the
 State of Alaska; and
 `(9) insular Pacific region, comprised of the marine and coastal waters
 off the State of Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
 Northern Mariana Islands.
The Great Lakes Research Office authorized under section  118(d) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1268(d)) shall be responsible
for research in the Great Lakes region and shall be considered the Great
Lakes counterpart to the research program established pursuant to this title.
 `(b) Membership-
 `(1) COMPOSITION- Each Board shall be comprised of 11 members of which--
 `(A) 3 members shall be appointed by the Administrator of the National
 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including 1 member who shall be a
 Sea Grant Program Director from a State within such region, who shall serve
 as chairman of the board;
 `(B) 2 members shall be appointed by the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency; and
 `(C) 6 members shall be appointed by Governors of States located within
 the region.
 `(2) QUALIFICATIONS- Each individual appointed as a member of a Board shall
 possess expertise, pertinent to the region concerned, in scientific research,
 coastal zone management, fishery management, water quality management,
 State and local government, or any other area which is directly relevant to
 the functions of the Board. A majority of the members of each Board shall
 be trained in a field of marine or aquatic science and shall be currently
 engaged in research or research administration.
 `(3) TERMS- Each appointed member of a Board shall serve for a term of
 4 years.
 `(4) VACANCIES- In the event of a vacancy, a replacement member shall be
 appointed in the same manner and in accordance with the same requirements
 as the member being replaced and shall serve the remainder of the term of
 the replaced member.
 `(5) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES- Each appointed member of a Board may be
 paid actual travel expenses, and per diem in lieu of subsistence expenses
 when away from the member's usual place of residence, in accordance with
 section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, when engaged in the actual
 performance of Board duties.
 `(c) FUNCTIONS- Each Board shall, in accordance with the provisions of
 this title--
 `(1) develop and submit to the Administrators of the National Oceanic
 and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency a
 marine research plan, including periodic amendments thereto, that meets
 the requirements of section 404;
 `(2) provide a forum for coordinating research among research institutions
 and agencies;
 `(3) provide for review and comment on research plans by affected users and
 interests, such as the commercial and recreational fishing industries, other
 marine industries, State and local government entities, and environmental
 organizations;
 `(4) ensure that the highest quality of research projects will be conducted
 to carry out the comprehensive plan; and
 `(5) prepare, for submission to Congress, a periodic report on the marine
 environmental research issues and activities within the region in accordance
 with section 406 of this title.
 `(d) POWERS- Each Board shall be authorized to--
 `(1) cooperate with Federal agencies, with States and with local government
 entities, interstate and regional agencies, other public agencies and
 authorities, nonprofit institutions, laboratories, and organizations,
 or other appropriate persons, in the preparation and support of marine
 research in the region;
 `(2) enter into contracts, cooperative agreements or grants to State and
 local governmental entities, other public agencies or institutions, and
 non-profit institutions and organizations for purposes of carrying out the
 provisions of this title;
 `(3) collect and make available through publications and other appropriate
 means, the results of, and other information pertaining to, the research
 conducted in the region;
 `(4) call conferences on regional marine research and assessment issues,
 giving opportunity for interested persons to be heard and present papers
 at such conferences;
 `(5) develop and stimulate, in consultation with the Department of State,
 joint marine research projects with foreign nations;
 `(6) utilize facilities and personnel of existing Federal agencies, including
 scientific laboratories and research facilities;
 `(7) accept, and for all general purposes of this Act, utilize funds
 from other sources, including but not limited to State and local funds,
 university funds, and donations; and
 `(8) acquire secret processes, inventions, patent applications, patents,
 licenses, and property rights, by purchase, license, lease, or donation.
 `(e) ADMINISTRATION-
 `(1) PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES- Each Board shall determine its organization,
 and prescribe its practices and procedures for carrying out its functions
 under this title. Each Board should use existing research administrative
 capability to the extent practicable.
 `(2) COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES- Each Board shall establish such committees
 and subcommittees as are appropriate in the performance of its functions.
 `(3) STAFF AND SUPPORT- Each Board is authorized to hire such staff as are
 necessary to carry out the functions of the Board.
 `(f) TERMINATION- Each Board shall cease to exist on October 1, 1999,
 unless extended by Congress.
`REGIONAL RESEARCH PLANS
 `SEC. 404. (a) DEVELOPMENT AND AMENDMENT OF REGIONAL PLANS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each Board shall develop a comprehensive 4-year marine
 research plan for the region for which the Board is responsible, and shall
 amend the plan at such times as the Board considers necessary to reflect
 changing conditions, but no less frequently than once every 4 years.
 `(2) REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION OF NATIONAL PLAN- In the development and
 amendment of its research plan, the Board shall consider findings and
 recommendations of the national plan developed pursuant to the National
 Ocean Pollution Planning Act of 1978 (33 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
 `(b) CONTENTS OF PLAN- Such marine research plan shall include--
 `(1) an overview of the environmental quality conditions in the coastal
 and marine waters of the region and expected trends in these conditions;
 `(2) a comprehensive inventory and description of all marine research
 related to water quality and ecosystem health expected to be conducted in
 the region during the 4-year  term of the research plan;
 `(3) a  statement and explanation of the marine research needs and priorities
 applicable to the marine and coastal waters of the region over the upcoming
 10-year period with emphasis on the upcoming 3-to-5 year period;
 `(4) an assessment of how the plan will incorporate existing marine, coastal,
 and estuarine research and management in the region, including activities
 pursuant to section 320 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
 U.S.C. 1330) and section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972
 (16 U.S.C. 1461); and
 `(5) a general description of marine research and monitoring objectives and
 timetables for achievement through the funding of projects under this title
 during the 4-year period covered by the plan so as to meet the priorities
 specified in the plan in accordance with paragraph (3).
 `(c) Plan Review and Approval-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- When a Board has developed a marine research plan, including
 amendments thereto, the Board shall submit the plan to the Administrator of
 the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Administration
 of the Environmental Protection Agency, who shall jointly determine whether
 the plan meets the requirements of subsection (b).
 `(2) TIME FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL- The Administrator of the National
 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Administrator of the
 Environmental Protection Agency, shall jointly approve or disapprove such
 research plan within 120 days after receiving the plan.
 `(3) ACTION  AFTER DISAPPROVAL- In the case of disapproval of such research
 plan, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall jointly
 notify the appropriate Board in writing, stating in detail the revisions
 necessary to    obtain approval of the plan. Such  Administrators shall
 approve or disapprove the revised plan within 90 days after receiving the
 revised plan from the Board.
`RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAM
 `SEC. 405. (a) PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION- The Administrator of the National
 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall administer a grant program to
 support the administrative functions of each Board.
 `(b) RESEARCH GRANTS- (1) Each Board may annually submit a grant application
 to the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 to fund projects aimed at achieving the research priorities set forth in
 each research plan, including amendments thereto, developed and approved
 pursuant to section 404.
 `(2) Projects eligible for funding under this section shall include research,
 investigations, studies, surveys, or demonstrations with respect to--
 `(A) baseline assessment of marine environmental quality, including chemical,
 physical, and biological indicators of environmental quality;
 `(B) effects or potential effects of contaminants, including nutrients,
 toxic chemicals and heavy metals, on the environment, including marine and
 aquatic organisms;
 `(C) effects of modification of habitats, including coastal wetlands,
 seagrass beds and reefs, on the environment, including marine organisms;
 `(D) assessment of impacts of pollutant sources and pollutant discharges
 into the coastal environment;
 `(E) transport, dispersion, transformation, and fate and effect of
 contaminants in the marine environment;
 `(F) marine and estuarine habitat assessment and restoration;
 `(G) methods and techniques for modeling environmental quality conditions
 and trends;
 `(H) methods and techniques for sampling of water, sediment, marine and
 aquatic organisms, and demonstration of such methods and techniques;
 `(I) the   effects on human health and the environment of contaminants
 or combinations of contaminants at various levels, whether natural or
 anthropogenic, that are found in the marine environment;
 `(J) environmental assessment of potential effects of major coastal and
 offshore development projects in the region;
 `(K) assessment of the effects of climate change on marine resources in
 the region; and
 `(L) analysis and interpretation of research data for the benefit of State and
 local environmental protection and resource management agencies in the region.
 `(3) Grant applications submitted pursuant to this subsection shall include--
 `(A) a description of the specific research projects to be conducted;
 `(B) identification of the organization responsible for each project and
 the principal investigator directing the project;
 `(C) a budget statement for each project;
 `(D) a schedule of milestones and interim products for each research project;
 `(E) a description of the relationship of the proposed project to the goals,
 objectives, and priorities of the research plan for the region and to other
 research projects; and
 `(F) any other information which may be required by the Administrator.
 `(c) REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECT PROPOSALS- (1) The Administrator
 of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall review the
 annual grant application and, with the concurrence of the Administrator of
 the Environmental Protection Agency, approve such grant application with
 such conditions as are determined to be appropriate based on peer reviews
 conducted pursuant to paragraph (2).
 `(2) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 shall develop a system of peer review of grant applications which shall
 ensure that only the highest quality research is approved for funding and that
 each project is reviewed by research scientists outside the region concerned.
 `(d) REPORTING- Any recipient of a grant under this section shall report to
 the appropriate Board, not later than 18 months after award of the grant, on
 the activities of such recipient conducted pursuant to this subsection. Such
 report shall include narrative summaries and technical data in such form
 as the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 may require.
`REPORT ON RESEARCH PROGRAM
 `SEC. 406. (a) PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF REPORT- Each Board receiving a
 grant under section 405 shall, not later than 2 years after the approval of
 its comprehensive plan under section 405 and at 2-year intervals thereafter,
 prepare and submit to the Administrator of the National Oceanic and
 Atmospheric Administration and the   Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency a report describing--
 `(1) the findings and conclusions of research projects conducted in the
 region;
 `(2) recommendations for improvements in the design or implementation of
 programs for the protection of the marine environment; and
 `(3) available data and information concerning ecosystem health within
 the region.
 `(b) TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS- Upon receipt of a report prepared by a
 Board under subsection (a), the Administrator of the National Oceanic
 and Atmospheric Administration and the Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency shall transmit a copy of such report to the Committees on
 Commerce, Science, and Transportation and on Environment and Public Works
 of the Senate and to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the
 House of Representatives.
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 407. (a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of carrying out the provisions of
 this title, there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for each
 of the fiscal years 1992 through 1996.
 `(b) ALLOCATION- (1) Of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, not more
 than $500,000 shall be reserved for administration of this title by the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental
 Protection Agency.
 `(2) Funds appropriated in a fiscal year which are available after allocation
 pursuant to paragraph (1), shall be used to support the administrative costs
 of Boards established pursuant to subsection 403(a), provided that such
 funding does not exceed $300,000 for each research Board in each fiscal year.
 `(3) Seventy-five percent of funds appropriated in a  fiscal year available
 after allocation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated
 equally among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant
 applications pursuant to section 405(b).
 `(4) Twenty-five percent of funds appropriated in a fiscal year available
 after allocation   pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated
 among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant applications
 pursuant to section 405(b) which, in the judgment of the Administrator of
 the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in consultation with
 the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, propose the most
 needed and highest quality research.'.
TITLE IV--FOREST FOUNDATION
SECTION 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Forest Foundation Act'.
SEC. 402. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSES OF FOUNDATION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the National Forest Foundation
 (hereinafter referred to as the `Foundation') as a charitable and nonprofit
 corporation domiciled in the District of Columbia.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of the Foundation are to--
 (1) encourage, accept, and administer private gifts of money, and of real and
 personal property for the benefit of, or in connection with, the activities
 and services of the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture;
 (2) undertake and conduct activities that further the purposes for which
 units of the National Forest System are established and are administered
 and that are consistent with approved forest plans; and
 (3) undertake, conduct and encourage educational, technical and other
 assistance, and other activities that support the multiple use, research,
 cooperative forestry and other programs administered by the Forest Service.
 (c) LIMITATION AND CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS- (1) The Foundation shall not
 participate or intervene in a political campaign on behalf of any candidate
 for public office.
 (2) No director, officer, or employee of the Foundation shall participate,
 directly or indirectly, in the consideration or determination of any question
 before the Foundation affecting--
 (A) the financial interests of the director, officer, or employee; or
 (B) the interests of any corporation partnership, entity, or organization
 in which such director, officer, or employee--
 (i) is an officer, director, or trustee; or
 (ii) has any direct or indirect financial interest.
SEC. 403. BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FOUNDATION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP- The Foundation shall have a governing Board
 of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the `Board'), which shall consist
 of fifteen Directors, each of whom shall be a United States citizen. At all
 times, a majority of members of the Board shall be educated or have actual
 experience in natural or cultural resource management, law, or research. To
 the extent practicable, members of the Board shall represent diverse points
 of view relating to natural and cultural resource issues. The Chief of the
 Forest Service shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the Board.
 (b) APPOINTMENT AND TERMS- Within one year from the date of enactment of
 this title, the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as the
 `Secretary') shall appoint the Directors of the Board. Directors shall
 be appointed for terms of six years; except that the Secretary, in making
 the initial appointments to the Board, shall appoint one-third each of the
 Directors to terms of two, four, and six years respectively. A vacancy on
 the Board shall be filled within sixty days of such vacancy in the manner
 in which the original appointment was made. No individual may serve more
 than twelve consecutive years as a Director.
 (c) CHAIRMAN- The Chairman shall be elected by the Board from its members. A
 chairman shall serve for a two-year term, and may be re-elected to the post
 during his tenure as a Director.
 (d) QUORUM- A majority of the current voting membership of the Board shall
 constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
 (e) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman at least
 once a year. If a Director misses three consecutive regularly scheduled
 meetings, that individual may be removed from the Board by majority vote of
 the Board of Directors and that vacancy filled in accordance with subsection
 (b) of this section.
 (f) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES- Voting members of the Board shall serve
 without pay, but may be reimbursed for the actual and necessary traveling
 and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties
 for the Foundation. Such reimbursement may not exceed such amount as would
 be authorized under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for the
 payment of expenses and allowances for individuals employed intermittently
 in the Federal Government service.
 (g) GENERAL POWERS- The Board may complete the organization of the Foundation
 by appointing employees, adopting a constitution and bylaws consistent
 with the purposes of the Foundation and the provisions of this subtitle,
 and undertaking other such acts as may be necessary to function and to
 carry out the provisions of this subtitle.
 (h) OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES- Officers and employees may not be appointed until
 the Foundation has sufficient funds to pay for their services. Officers
 and employees of the Foundation shall be appointed without regard to the
 provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
 competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions
 of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
 classification and General Schedule pay rates.
SEC. 404. CORPORATE POWERS AND OBLIGATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Foundation--
 (1) shall have perpetual succession;
 (2) may conduct business throughout the several States, territories, and
 possessions of the United States and in foreign countries;
 (3) shall have its principal offices in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan
 area; and
 (4) shall at all times maintain a designated agent in the District of
 Columbia authorized to accept service of process for the Foundation.
 (b) NOTICE AND SERVICE OF PROCESS- The serving of notice to, or service
 of process upon, the agent required under this paragraph, or mailed to the
 business address of such agent, shall be deemed as service upon or notice
 to the Foundation.
 (c) SEAL- The Foundation shall have an official seal selected by the Board
 which shall be judicially noticed.
 (d) POWERS- To carry out its purposes, the Foundation shall have, in
 addition to powers otherwise authorized under this title, the usual powers
 of a corporation in the District of Columbia, including the power to--
 (1) accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer and use any gift, devise,
 or bequest, either absolutely or in trust, or real or personal property or
 any income therefrom or other interest therein;
 (2) acquire by donation, gift, devise, purchase or exchange any real or
 personal property or interest therein;
 (3) unless otherwise required by the instrument of transfer, sell, donate,
 lease, invest, reinvest, retain or otherwise dispose of any property or
 income therefrom;
 (4) borrow money and issue bonds, debentures, or other debt instruments;
 (5) sue and be sued, and complain and defend itself in any court of competent
 jurisdiction (except that the Directors of the Board shall not be personally
 liable, except for gross negligence);
 (6) enter into contracts or other arrangements with public agencies, private
 organizations, and persons and to make such payments as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes thereof; and
 (7) do any and all acts necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of
 the Foundation.
 (e) PROPERTY- (1) The Foundation may acquire, hold and dispose of lands,
 waters, or other interests in real property by donation, gift, devise,
 purchase or exchange. For the purposes of this title, an interest in real
 property shall include, but not be limited to, mineral and water rights,
 rights of way, and easements appurtenant or in gross. A gift, devise, or
 bequest may be accepted by the Foundation even though it is encumbered,
 restricted, or subject to beneficial interests of private persons if any
 current or future interest therein is for the benefit of the Foundation.
 (2) No lands or waters, or interests therein, that are owned by the
 Foundation and are determined by the Chief of the United States Forest
 Service to be valuable for purposes established in this title shall be
 subject to condemnation by any State or political subdivision, or any agent
 or instrumentality thereof.
 (3) The Foundation and any income or property received or owned by it,
 and all transactions relating to such income or property, shall be exempt
 from all Federal, State, and local taxation with respect thereto.
 (4) Contributions, gifts, and other transfers made to or for the use of
 the Foundation shall be treated as contributions, gifts, or transfers to an
 organization exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
 Revenue Code of 1986.
SEC. 405. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES AND SUPPORT.
 (a) STARTUP FUNDS- For purposes of assisting the Foundation in establishing
 an office and meeting initial administrative and other startup expenses,
 the Secretary is authorized to provide to the Foundation $500,000, from
 funds appropriated pursuant to section 410(a), per year for the two years
 following the date of enactment of this title.  Such funds shall remain
 available to the Foundation until they are expended for authorized purposes.
 (b) MATCHING FUNDS- In addition to the startup funds provided under subsection
 (a) of this section, for a period of five years from the date of enactment
 of this title, the Secretary is authorized to provide matching funds for
 administrative expenses incurred by the Foundation as authorized by section
 410(b) of this title including reimbursement of expenses under section 403,
 not to exceed then current Federal Government per diem rates.
 (c) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- At any time, the Secretary may provide the
 Foundation use of Department of Agriculture personnel, facilities, and
 equipment, with partial or no reimbursement, with such limitations and on
 such terms and conditions as the Secretary shall establish.
SEC. 406. VOLUNTEERS.
 The Secretary may accept, without regard to the civil service classification
 laws, rules and regulations, any director, officer, employee or agent of
 the Foundation as a volunteer for purposes of the Volunteers in the National
 Forests Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a through 558d; 86 Stat. 147).
SEC. 407. AUDITS AND REPORT REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) AUDITS- For purposes of the Act entitled `An Act for audit of accounts
 of private corporations established under Federal law,' approved August 30,
 1964 (36 U.S.C. 1101 through 1103; Public Law 88-504) the Foundation shall
 be treated as a private corporation established under Federal law.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORTS- The Foundation shall, transmit each year to Congress
 a report of its proceedings and activities of the previous year, including
 a full and complete statement of its receipts, expenditures, and investments.
SEC. 408. UNITED STATES RELEASE FROM LIABILITY.
 The United States shall not be liable for any debts, defaults, acts or
 omissions of the Foundation nor shall the full faith and credit of the
 United States extend to any obligations of the Foundation.
SEC. 409. ACTIVITIES OF THE FOUNDATION AND UNITED STATES FOREST SERVICE.
 The activities of the Foundation authorized under the provisions of this Act
 shall be supplemental to and shall not preempt any authority or responsibility
 of the United States Forest Service under any other provision of law.
SEC. 410. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) START-UP FUNDS- For the purposes of section 405 of this title, there
 are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000.
 (b) MATCHING FUNDS- For the purposes of section 405 of this title,
 during the five-year period following the date of the enactment of this
 title, there are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 annually to the
 Secretary of Agriculture to be made available to the Foundation to match,
 on a one-for-one basis, private contributions made to the Foundation.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.