 
--H.R.5264--
H.R.5264
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize modification of the boundaries of the Alaska Maritime National
Wildlife
Refuge.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act, the term--
 (1) `Koniag' means Koniag, Incorporated, an Alaska Native Corporation
 established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971
 (85 Stat. 688), as amended;
 (2) `limited general warranty deed' means a general warranty deed which is,
 with respect to its warranties, limited to that portion of the chain of
 title from the moment of conveyance from the United States to Koniag to
 and including the moment at which such title is validly reconveyed to the
 United States of America and its assigns; and
 (3) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior acting through the
 Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
SEC. 2. LANDS TO BE EXCHANGED.
 (a) LANDS EXCHANGED TO THE UNITED STATES- (1) The Secretary is directed
 to accept from Koniag a conveyance by limited general warranty deed of the
 surface and subsurface rights to approximately two hundred and nine acres of
 land on Kodiak Island, Alaska, designated `Koniag Lands' upon a map entitled
 `Koniag Land Exchange', dated September 4, 1990, and available for inspection
 in appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 (2) The lands described in paragraph (1) shall be included in the Alaska
 Maritime National Wildlife Refuge as of the date of the acceptance of the
 conveyance from Koniag.
 (b) LANDS EXCHANGED TO KONIAG- In exchange for the lands conveyed by Koniag
 under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall, subject to valid existing
 rights and notwithstanding any other provision of law, convey to Koniag, from
 within those lands designated as Tracts 1, 2 and 3 upon the map identified
 in subsection (a)(1), the surface and subsurface rights to an amount of land
 selected by Koniag which has a total value, as determined by the appraisals
 performed under section 3, equal to the sum of the value of the Koniag lands
 described in subsection (a)(1), plus one half of the cost of all appraisals
 performed under section 3 of this Act. Such conveyance shall be by quitclaim
 deed, based upon a metes and bounds description of the land to be conveyed.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF LAND VALUES.
 (a) SELECTION OF APPRAISERS- Not later than sixty days after the enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary and Koniag shall each select an appraiser who shall
 independently perform an appraisal of the fair market value of the lands
 identified in section 2 of this Act. Each such appraiser shall be a member
 of or certified by the Appraisal Foundation and shall have a professional
 designation compatible with the valuation to be performed. Such appraisals
 shall be performed in conformity with the standards of such Foundation. Any
 special instruction regarding the performance of the appraisals shall be
 issued only upon the mutual agreement of the Koniag and the Secretary.
 (b) DIFFERENCES IN APPRAISALS- (1) In the event that the appraisals conducted
 under the provisions of subsection (a) shall differ by less than 20 percent
 in their assignment of value to either the tract identified under section
 2(a)(1) or to any of the tracts identified in section 2(b), the value assigned
 to that tract shall be an amount equal to the lower of the two appraisals,
 plus one-half of the difference between the two appraisals.
 (2) In the event the appraisals delivered under the provisions of subsection
 (a) shall differ by more than 20 percent in their assignment of value to
 either the tract identified under section 2(a)(1) or the tracts identified
 in section 2(b), the Secretary and Koniag shall jointly select a third
 appraiser who meets the requirements of this section. Such third appraiser
 shall review the previously delivered appraisals of the tracts in question,
 and shall be instructed to reach a determination of value for the tract
 in question that lies between the values determined for that tract by the
 previous appraisals. The value determined by such third appraisal shall be
 binding upon both the Secretary and Koniag.
 (3) Koniag shall bear the cost of all such appraisals, but shall be reimbursed
 in land by the United States for one-half of such costs pursuant to the
 provisions of section 2(b).
SEC. 4. TIMING.
 (a) INITIAL APPRAISALS- The appraisals required under section 3(a) shall be
 completed and delivered to the Secretary and to Koniag within one hundred
 and twenty days of the selection of the appraisers.
 (b) REVIEW APPRAISAL- In the event a review appraisal is required pursuant
 to the provisions of section 3(b)(2) of this Act, such review appraisal
 shall be completed and delivered to the Secretary and to Koniag within
 sixty days of the selection of that appraiser.
 (c) CONVEYANCE BY KONIAG- Koniag shall have one hundred eighty days after
 the date of the delivery of the appraisals performed under section 3(b)(1) or
 3(b)(2), as the case may be, to convey to the Secretary the lands described in
 section 2(a)(1), and a technically correct description of lands to be conveyed
 to them under section 2(b). The Secretary may extend such time for good cause.
 (d) CONVEYANCE BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall convey to Koniag the
 lands identified by them pursuant to section 2(b) within one hundred and
 eighty days after his approval of Koniag's conveyance pursuant to subsection
 (c). Those lands conveyed to Koniag under this Act shall be excluded from
 the exterior boundaries of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.
SEC. 5. EFFECT ON TITLE TO TIDAL OR SUBMERGED LANDS.
 (a) CLAIMS BY THE STATE OF ALASKA- No provision of this Act shall be construed
 to invalidate or validate or in any other way affect the State of Alaska's
 claim that title to any or all of the tidal or submerged lands conveyed
 or to be conveyed hereunder vested in the State at statehood nor shall any
 actions taken pursuant to or in accordance with this section operate under
 any provision or principle of law to bar the State of Alaska from asserting
 at any time its claim of title.
 (b) OTHER CONSIDERATION- Should it be determined by a final order, not
 subject to further appeal and issued by a court of competent jurisdiction,
 that title to some or all of the lands conveyed or purported to be conveyed
 under the authority of this section is in the State of Alaska, then within six
 months after the final order the Secretary shall take all actions necessary
 to achieve rescission and restitution to establish status quo ante with
 regard to the exchange authorized in section 2 of this Act unless Koniag
 and the Secretary mutually agree to the identity of other consideration
 to be granted to Koniag, which consideration shall have a value equal to
 the value of those lands, the title to which is in the State of Alaska or
 mutually agree to extend the six month period.
SEC. 6. RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
 In order to protect the United States Coast Guard Holiday Beach receiver site,
 the lands to be conveyed to Koniag under subsection 2(b) of this Act shall
 be subject to the same restrictions and limitations on their use as are
 the adjacent lands which were conveyed to Koniag subject to the agreement
 dated December 9, 1977, between the Commandant of the United States Coast
 Guard and Koniag. Such restrictions and limitations shall be considered in
 determining the fair market value of the lands under section 3 of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.