 
--H.R.3787--
H.R.3787
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize a joint Federal, State, and Tribal study for the restoration
of the fishery
resources of the Chehalis River Basin, Washington, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Chehalis River Basin Fishery Resources Study
 and Restoration Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
 (1) The Chehalis River Basin in southwestern Washington, including Grays
 Harbor and its tributaries, has approximately 1,400 separate rivers and
 streams totaling nearly 3,400 miles in length which flow into the Pacific
 Ocean through Grays Harbor, a major west coast estuarine system.
 (2) The Basin historically produced large runs of anadromous and resident
 fish that supported important commercial, recreational, and tribal fisheries
 within the Basin and off the coast of the States of Washington and Alaska
 and Canada; however, the population of these fishery resources is less than
 one-half the levels that occurred prior to 1935.
 (3) The decline in productivity of the Chehalis system is thought to result
 from a number of activities. Ongoing studies by the State of Washington and
 others have linked significant mortality of Chehalis River salmon to water
 quality degradation, sedimentation of spawning gravels, reduced stream flows,
 and reduced spawning escapements.
 (4) The Federal Government has a substantial interest in the fishery
 resources of the Basin because important interjurisdictional (including
 international) and tribal fisheries are involved and several federally
 constructed, permitted, and licensed water projects are located in the Basin.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to require a comprehensive study of the causes of the decline of fishery
 resources originating in the Chehalis River Basin;
 (2) to develop recommendations for a program to address the causes of those
 declines; and
 (3) to restore those fishery resources in a reasonable period of time.
SEC. 3. JOINT FEDERAL, STATE, AND TRIBAL STUDY AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
 (a) STUDY- Subject to section 5, the Director of the United States Fish
 and Wildlife Service shall undertake a comprehensive study of the fishery
 resources and habitats of the Basin and, on the basis of such study, develop
 goals and recommend  short- and long-term actions for achieving those goals
 and maximizing the restoration and conservation of those fishery resources
 and habitats. The Director shall submit the study, goals, and recommended
 short- and long-term actions to the Congress before October 1, 1992.
 (b) PARTICIPATION OF STATE OF WASHINGTON-
 (1) INVITATION- In carrying out subsection (a), the Director shall invite
 the heads of the departments of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Ecology of the
 State of Washington  to participate jointly in undertaking the study and
 developing goals and recommending actions.
 (2) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- The Director, the head of the Council of
 the Chehalis Tribe, the head of the Council of the Quinault Indian Nation,
 and each head of a State department participating pursuant to paragraph (1),
 shall enter into a memorandum of understanding setting forth the respective
 responsibilities of each entity in carrying out the study and making
 recommendations regarding fishery resource restoration under subsection (a).
 (c) CONSULTATION- In carrying out this Act, the Director shall, to the
 maximum extent practicable, consult with the National Marine Fisheries
 Service, Army Corps of Engineers, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal
 Energy Regulatory Commission, Soil Conservation Service, State of Washington
 agencies, including the Department of Natural Resources, the Northwest Indian
 Fisheries Commission, affected local governments, appropriate commercial,
 recreational, and Tribal fishing interests, other affected or interested
 entities, and (if the joint participation referred to in this section is
 not effected) the heads of the Departments of Fisheries, Wildlife, and
 Ecology of the State of Washington.
 (d) MAPS- The Director shall prepare and maintain maps depicting the Chehalis
 River Basin for use in fulfilling the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 4. STUDY CONTENTS.
 The study under section 3 shall take advantage of and build upon ongoing
 watershed planning and research efforts to identify fishery resource problems
 in the basin to complete the following:
 (1) DESCRIPTION OF BASIN- A physical, hydrographic, economic, and social
 description of the Basin.
 (2) HISTORICAL FISHERY RESOURCES AND HABITATS- A historical account of the
 fishery resources and habitats of the Basin.
 (3) DESCRIPTION OF FISHERY RESOURCES AND HABITATS- A comprehensive description
 of the fishery resources and habitats of the Basin, including--
 (A) population estimates of fishery resources in the Basin that are of sport
 or commercial value, important forage resources, or otherwise of significance;
 (B) an analysis of the current status and trends of the Basin's fishery
 resources and their use, and the cause of any decline in population of each
 such species, including the extent and causes of environmental problems in
 Grays Harbor and the lower Chehalis River and other impediments to smolt
 and adult migration in the Basin;
 (C) an identification of the location, quantity, and extent of utilization of
 existing adult holding, spawning, and juvenile rearing habitat, as well as
 the location of degraded fish habitat, and impediments to use of potential
 adult holding, spawning, and juvenile rearing habitat in the Basin;
 (D) estimates of instream flows needed where insufficient stream flows
 occur due to human activities and development of instream flow strategies
 to address these problems; and
 (E) a projection of the problems that the species identified as a result
 of subparagraph (A) are expected to encounter in the future.
 (4) EFFECTS OF LAND USE ON FISHERY RESOURCES- An analysis of how Basin
 characteristics and past, current, and projected land and water use within
 the Basin have affected, and can be expected to affect, its fishery resources
 and habitats, including documentation of the nature, source, and magnitude
 of point and nonpoint pollution, sedimentation, and runoff characteristics.
 (5) REVIEW AND EVALUATION OF AVAILABLE INFORMATION AND RESTORATION STUDIES
 AND ACTIONS- (A) A review of past and ongoing research on the decline of
 Chehalis Basin fishery resources and the results of existing or previous
 attempts to address the declines.
 (B) Based on the review under subparagraph (A), an evaluation of the adequacy
 of the information that is currently available, and specification of the
 additional types, quantity, and periodicity of information that must be
 obtained, for the purposes of restoring and conserving the fishery resources
 and habitats of the Basin.
 (6) FEDERAL, STATE, TRIBAL, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT ROLES- A discussion of
 Federal, State, Tribal, and local government statutory authorities and
 programs that pertain to the conservation and restoration of the fishery
 resources and habitats of the Basin, with particular attention being given
 to the fishery management plans and programs of those jurisdictions and
 the relationship to applicable private fishery conservation and management
 activities.
 (7) RESTORATION PROGRAM RECOMMENDATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES- A comprehensive
 statement of fishery resource restoration goals and objectives for fish
 originating in the Basin and the remedial actions and programs necessary
 to achieve those goals and objectives. The statement shall designate the
 authorities responsible, together with a projected timetable, for taking
 such actions and carrying out such programs. In addition, the statement
 shall prescribe the areas and priorities for any additional studies needed
 to restore fishery resources in the Basin.
SEC. 5. COST SHARING.
 (a) REQUIREMENT FOR SHARING- The State of Washington may not participate
 in undertaking the study under section 3, including developing goals and
 recommending actions for the restoration and conservation of the fishery
 resources and habitats of the Basin, unless the Director is satisfied
 that non-Federal and nontribal participants in the study will pay in the
 aggregate at least one-sixth of the cost of the study.
 (b) IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The non-Federal share required by subsection (a) may be in
 the form of cash or services, or other in-kind contributions, fairly valued,
 including the time of State  employees not funded from Federal sources.
 (2) QUALIFICATIONS AND OTHER STANDARDS- The Director shall by regulation
 establish--
 (A) the training, experience, and other qualifications which volunteers must
 have in order for their services to be considered as in-kind contributions;
 and
 (B) the standards under which the Director will determine the value of
 in-kind contributions for purposes of this subsection.
Valuations made by the Director under this subsection are final and not
subject to judicial review.
 (c) LIMITATION- The Director shall not consider the expenditure, either
 directly or indirectly, of Federal moneys received by the State of Washington
 or any local government of such a State,  to be a financial contribution
 from a non-Federal source. For purposes of this section, funds provided
 to the tribes under authority of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25
 U.S.C. 450f-450n) shall not be considered Federal moneys.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act:
 (1) BASIN- The term `Basin' means the Chehalis River Basin in the State
 of Washington, including the Chehalis River in southwestern Washington
 and its drainage basin as well as Grays Harbor and the remainder of its
 drainage basin.
 (2) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of the United States
 Fish and Wildlife Service, acting for the Secretary of the Interior.
 (3) FISHERY RESOURCES- The term `fishery resources' means--
 (A) any stock of fish;
 (B) one or more stocks of fish that can be treated as a unit for purposes
 of conservation and management and that are identified on the basis of
 geographic, scientific, recreational, or economic considerations;
 (C) any species of fish; or
 (D) any habitat of fish.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director not more
 than $2,500,000 to carry out this Act,  to remain available until
 expended. One-fifth of any amounts appropriated under the authority of this
 section shall be made available to the Chehalis Tribe and the Quinault
 Indian Nation to carry out their responsibilities under a memorandum of
 understanding entered into pursuant to section 3(b).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.