 
--H.R.29--
H.R.29
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
Entitled the `Antitrust Amendments Act of 1990'.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
 `Antitrust Amendments Act of 1990'.
 SEC. 2. Section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 19) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `SEC. 8. (a)(1) No person shall, at the same time, serve as a director or
 officer in any two corporations (other than banks, banking associations,
 and trust companies) that are--
 `(A) engaged in whole or in part in commerce; and
 `(B) by virtue of their business and location of operation, competitors,
 so that the elimination of competition by agreement between them would
 constitute a violation of any of the antitrust laws;
if each of the corporations has capital, surplus, and undivided profits
aggregating more than $10,000,000 as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (5)
of this subsection.
 `(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), simultaneous service
 as a director or officer in any two corporations shall not be prohibited
 by this section if--
 `(A) the competitive sales of either corporation are less than $1,000,000,
 as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (5) of this subsection;
 `(B) the competitive sales of either corporation are less than 2 per centum
 of that corporation's total sales; or
 `(C) the competitive sales of each corporation are less than 4 per centum
 of that corporation's total sales.
For purposes of this paragraph, `competitive sales' means the gross revenues
for all products and services sold by one corporation in competition with the
other, determined on the basis of annual gross revenues for such products and
services in that corporation's last completed fiscal year. For the purposes
of this paragraph, `total sales' means the gross revenues for all products
and services sold by one corporation over that corporation's last completed
fiscal year.
 `(3) The eligibility of a director or officer under the provisions of
 paragraph (1) shall be determined by the capital, surplus and undivided
 profits, exclusive of dividends declared but not paid to stockholders, of
 each corporation at the end of that corporation's last completed fiscal year.
 `(4) For purposes of this section, the term `officer' means an officer
 elected or chosen by the Board of Directors.
 `(5) For each fiscal year commencing after September 30, 1990, the $10,000,000
 and $1,000,000 thresholds in this subsection shall be increased (or decreased)
 as of October 1 each year by an amount equal to the percentage increase (or
 decrease) in the gross national product, as determined by the Department
 of Commerce or its successor, for the year then ended over the level so
 established for the year ending September 30, 1989. As soon as practicable,
 but not later than October 30 of each year, the Federal Trade Commission
 shall publish the adjusted amounts required by this paragraph.
 `(b) When any person elected or chosen as a director or officer of any
 corporation subject to the provisions hereof is eligible at the time of
 his election or selection to act for such corporation in such capacity,
 his eligibility to act in such capacity shall not be affected by any of
 the provisions hereof by reason of any change in the capital, surplus and
 undivided profits, or affairs of such corporation from whatever cause,
 until the expiration of one year from the date on which the event causing
 ineligibility occurred.'.
 SEC. 3. Section 10 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 20) is hereby repealed.
amendments
 SEC. 4. (a) RESTRAINT OF TRADE AMONG THE STATES- Section 1 of the Sherman
 Act (15 U.S.C. 1) is amended--
 (1) by striking `one million dollars' and inserting `$10,000,000', and
 (2) by striking `one hundred thousand dollars' and inserting `$350,000'.
 (b) MONOPOLY- Section 2 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 2) is amended--
 (1) by striking `one million dollars' and inserting `$10,000,000', and
 (2) by striking `one hundred thousand dollars' and inserting `$350,000'.
 (c) OTHER RESTRAINTS OF TRADE- Section 3 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 3)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `one million dollars' and inserting `$10,000,000', and
 (2) by striking `one hundred thousand dollars' and inserting `$350,000'.
TREBLE DAMAGES FOR THE UNITED STATES
 SEC. 5. Section 4A of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 15a) is amended by striking
 out `actual' and inserting in lieu thereof `threefold the'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.