 
--H.R.4567--
H.R.4567
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize an exchange of lands in South Dakota and Colorado.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) certain lands located within or adjacent to the Black Hills National
 Forest in Lawrence and Meade Counties, South Dakota, are currently in
 private ownership;
 (2) these lands, which are owned by Homestake Mining Company of California
 (hereinafter referred to as `Homestake'), are intermingled with National
 Forest lands and comprise potential valuable additions to the Black Hills
 National Forest to serve important public values and objectives, including
 but not limited to--
 (A) public access and opportunities for hunting, fishing and other outdoor
 recreation;
 (B) fish and wildlife habitat protection (including Blue Ribbon trout
 habitat in Spearfish Creek);
 (C) the preservation of scenic beauty;
 (D) public access to, and the enhancement of the outstanding scenic, natural
 and recreational values of Spearfish Canyon and other canyons within the
 Black Hills;
 (E) protection of the scenic backdrop to the Spearfish Canyon National
 Forest Scenic Byway; and
 (F) more efficient National Forest land management;
 (3) such lands, if not acquired for addition to the Black Hills National
 Forest, may be sold and developed for purposes which may be incompatible
 with the above mentioned objectives;
 (4) Homestake has offered to convey such lands, which total approximately
 twelve thousand two hundred and seventy-four acres, to the United States
 by sale or exchange so that they may be managed for National Forest and
 land conservation purposes;
 (5) Homestake has identified National Forest lands in Summit County,
 Colorado, that--
 (A) Homestake or local government units would like to acquire;
 (B) are intermingled with or adjacent to privately owned and developed lands;
 (C) are currently developed, permitted for ski area or local government
 purposes, or adjacent to developed or permitted areas or communities;
 (D) are not necessary for retention in government ownership to serve the
 public interest or objectives; and
 (E) are therefore suitable for disposal through a land exchange; and
 (6) given the relative environmental and other values of the lands proposed
 for exchange in this Act, the land exchange set forth herein is clearly in
 the public interest and represents the land acquisition strategy that best
 meets dual public objectives of acquiring the Spearfish Canyon and other
 South Dakota properties, while at the same time minimizing or eliminating
 cash outlays by the United States to achieve such objectives.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to authorize, direct, and expedite
 the consummation of the interstate land exchange and transfer set forth herein
 in order to further the public interest by acquiring lands in South Dakota
 with important values for permanent public management and protection and
 to transfer certain lands to non-Federal ownership in Summit County, Colorado.
SEC. 2. SOUTH DAKOTA-COLORADO LAND EXCHANGE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- If Homestake enters into an exchange agreement with the
 Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary shall exchange lands with Homestake
 as set forth in this Act.
 (b) CONVEYANCE BY HOMESTAKE- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
 Homestake shall convey to the Secretary of Agriculture all right, title
 and interest of Homestake in certain lands in Lawrence and Meade Counties,
 South Dakota, that comprise approximately twelve thousand two hundred and
 seventy-four acres. Such lands include approximately 1,250 acres of riparian
 lands in Spearfish Canyon that encompass some 20 miles of stream frontage
 on Spearfish Creek, and are generally depicted on maps entitled `Forest
 Service-Homestake Land Exchange--South Dakota Lands to Forest Service',
 numbered A-H, and dated February 1990. In making such conveyance Homestake
 shall retain:
 (1) All mineral rights in the above described lands owned, held or controlled
 by Homestake as of the date of enactment of this Act, except that--
 (A) any future exercise of such mineral rights shall be subject to the
 provisions of 36 CFR 251-15 in effect on the date of enactment of this Act
 pertaining to surface and other use of lands conveyed to the Secretary of
 Agriculture where mineral rights are reserved; and
 (B) that with respect to mineral rights retained in the approximately
 1,250 acres of riparian lands within the watershed of Spearfish Canyon, any
 exploration and development of such rights shall be limited to methods and
 activities that do not disturb the surface of such lands. If such rights
 are ever proposed for exploration and development, the Secretary shall
 provide Homestake with such access or permits on, through, or under National
 Forest lands including, but not limited to permits for drilling, tunnels,
 air shafts, surface vents and other activities incidental to exploration
 or underground mining operations adjacent to such riparian lands as will
 reasonably permit exploration and development of the mineral rights without
 surface disturbance of such riparian lands or impairment of the values of
 Spearfish Canyon as set forth in this Act.
 (2) All water rights within the watershed of Spearfish Creek and its
 tributaries owned, held or controlled by Homestake as of the date of
 enactment of this Act and shall exercise such rights in accordance with
 applicable Federal, State, and local law and in accordance with any subsequent
 cooperative agreements or undertakings entered into between Homestake, the
 Secretary, and the State of South Dakota for the protection and enhancement
 of the values of Spearfish Canyon as set forth in this Act.
 (3) Cabin sites as indicated on the map numbered `A' referenced in this
 subsection within the watershed of Spearfish Creek and its tributaries
 that are intermingled with the lands to be conveyed to the Secretary of
 Agriculture but that are owned and permitted by Homestake to private parties
 and such sites will continue to remain in private ownership.
 (c) CONVEYANCE BY UNITED STATES- Upon receipt of title to the lands identified
 in subsection (a) the Secretary shall simultaneously convey to Homestake all
 right, title, and interest of the United States, except for mineral rights,
 subject to valid existing rights and existing National Forest improvements,
 in and to the following:
 (1) Approximately eight hundred and sixty-eight acres of lands located in
 Summit County, Colorado, as generally depicted on maps entitled `Forest
 Service-Homestake Land Exchange--Lands to Homestake', numbered 1-3 and
 dated May 1990, and numbered 4-6 and dated March 1990, except that the lands
 identified on Map number 5 and generally known as the South Frisco Bay parcel
 shall not be patented to Homestake unless and until the Town of Frisco and
 Summit County, Colorado, jointly agree to a land use plan for such parcel
 that emphasizes the use of such parcel for open space and recreation. If
 the South Frisco Bay parcel is not patented to Homestake within eighteen
 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall in lieu
 thereof either pay Homestake cash equalization moneys without regard to the
 25 percent limitation contained in subsection 3(a) of this Act or offer
 Homestake monetary credits pursuant to that subsection, as the Secretary
 may find preferable.
 (2) Not to exceed forty acres of lands located in Lawrence County, South
 Dakota, which currently comprise National Forest cabin permit sites,
 as generally depicted on  a map entitled `Forest Service-Homestake Land
 Exchange--Spearfish Cabin Sites to Homestake', dated February 1990, that
 shall be sold to the current cabin permittees by Homestake at the value of
 such lands as determined by an appraisal done pursuant to section 3(b) plus
 any surveying, platting or other administrative costs incurred by Homestake
 to prepare and sell such lands, upon application by the permittees  or
 their successors in interest. The transfer of any particular cabin site
 to Homestake pursuant to this subparagraph shall be contingent on the
 permittee's request of such a transfer. If such a request is not made,
 the site shall continue to be permitted by the Secretary in accordance with
 existing rules, regulations, and procedures.
 (3) Mineral rights in the lands identified in this subsection shall not
 be conveyed to Homestake and, subject to valid existing rights, shall
 be withdrawn from further appropriation under the mining laws and from
 disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral leasing and all amendments
 thereto.
 (d) RESERVATIONS- Patents issued by the Secretary of the Interior for the
 lands conveyed pursuant to section 2(c)(1) shall reserve to the public, for
 administration by the Secretary of Agriculture or by such State or local
 units or agencies of government, or by private nonprofit organizations,
 as the Secretary of Agriculture in consultation with local planning
 authorities determines appropriate and qualified to fulfill the purposes
 of the reservation--
 (1) the right of access for fishing use along all streambeds (up to the
 ordinary high water mark) on streams which flow through the lands conveyed;
 (2) a right-of-way for the Colorado Trail along its existing routes through
 the lands identified on Map 3 of the lands referred to in subsection (c) or
 along relocated routes as may be identified by the Secretary of Agriculture
 in consultation with local planning authorities;
 (3) a right-of-way for relocation of the existing bicycle path through
 the lands identified on Map 2 of the lands referred to in subsection (c)
 to a new route as may be identified by the Secretary of Agriculture in
 consultation with local planning authorities.
SEC. 3. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EXCHANGE.
 (a) EQUALIZATION OF VALUES- The values of the lands to be exchanged pursuant
 to this Act shall be equal as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture,
 or if they are not equal, shall be equalized by the payment of money to
 Homestake or to the Secretary subject to the 25 per centum cash equalization
 limitation of section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act
 of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716). The Secretary shall try to reduce the amount of
 cash equalization to as small an amount as possible. In lieu of any cash
 equalization payments which may be due Homestake pursuant to this Act,
 the Secretary may elect to offer Homestake monetary credits, which shall be
 considered `moneys received' within the meaning of the Act of May 23, 1908,
 against any moneys owed the Secretary by Homestake or its agents for timber
 sales within the Black Hills National Forest. Any cash equalization moneys
 received by the United States pursuant to this Act shall be considered
 money received and deposited pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967, as
 amended (Public Law 90-171, 16 U.S.C. 484a), commonly known as the Sisk
 Act. The value of the surface development rights relinquished by Homestake
 on the 1,250 acres within Spearfish Canyon pursuant to section 2(b)(1)(B)
 shall be considered for all purposes of law a donation by Homestake to the
 United States and shall not be required to be appraised for purposes of
 value equalization or other provisions of this Act.
 (b) APPRAISALS- In order to expedite the consummation of the exchange directed
 by this Act, Homestake shall arrange and pay for appraisals by a qualified
 appraiser or appraisers mutually acceptable to Homestake and the Secretary
 of all lands and interests therein to be included in the exchange for which
 appraisals are required for purposes of this Act. Such appraisals shall be
 completed and submitted to the Secretary for approval within sixty days after
 the enactment of this Act. In the event the Secretary and Homestake are unable
 to agree to the appraised value of a certain tract or tracts of land to be
 included in the exchange within one hundred and twenty days after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the appraisal, appraisals, or appraisal issues in
 dispute shall be resolved through a process of bargaining or submitted for
 arbitration according to section 3 of the Federal Land Exchange Facilitation
 Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-409, 43 U.S.C. 1716(d)). Appraisals of lands in
 Colorado identified in section 2(c) of this Act for conveyance to Homestake
 shall not reflect any diminution in value attributable to any conversion
 of existing ski area permits into ski area permits pursuant to the National
 Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-522).
 (c) EXCHANGE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary shall attempt, within 60 days after
 the completion of appraisals under this section, to enter into an exchange
 agreement with Homestake to consummate the exchange of the specific tracts
 of lands identified in section 2 of this Act. Unless otherwise specified
 in the exchange agreement, the tracts shall be exchanged at the earliest
 possible date after the exchange agreement is signed. It is the intent
 of Congress that the exchange be completed no later than two hundred and
 seventy days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (d) ADDITION TO BLACK HILLS NATIONAL FOREST- Lands acquired by the United
 States within or adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the Black Hills
 National Forest shall be added to and administered as part of the Black
 Hills National Forest. The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized to
 modify such boundaries to incorporate such lands upon their acquisition by
 the United States. Upon their inclusion in the National Forest System such
 lands shall be managed in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations
 generally applicable to the National Forest System, unless otherwise
 specifically provided by this Act.
 (e) DEFINITION- As used in this Act, the term `Homestake' shall mean the
 Homestake Mining Company of California or its successors or assigns.
SEC. 4. CONVEYANCE TO SUMMIT COUNTY, COLORADO.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Upon payment by Summit County to the Secretary of the sum of
 $25,000 and execution of an agreement between the County and the United States
 as specified in paragraph (4), the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to
 Summit County, Colorado, all right, title and interest of the United States
 in approximately four hundred and seventy-seven acres of land as generally
 depicted on a map numbered 7 and entitled `Summit County Landfill', dated
 July 1990. Such conveyance shall be subject to the following conditions:
 (1) The lands conveyed shall continue to be used for solid waste disposal,
 expansion of the Summit County landfill, or other authorized purposes of
 Summit County government.
 (2) In the event Summit County ever sells, exchanges or otherwise disposes
 of all or a portion of the lands acquired pursuant to this section, all
 proceeds of such sale, exchange, or disposal shall accrue to the United
 States, or the Secretary of Agriculture may elect to reacquire, without
 compensation to Summit County, any or all portions of such lands that
 have not been used for solid waste disposal, as the Secretary determines
 appropriate prior to their sale, exchange, or disposal by the County.
 (3) The patent issued by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to this
 section shall not contain a reverter provision and under no circumstances
 shall lands used for solid waste disposal be eligible for reversion to the
 United States by operation of law after the issuance of such patent.
 (4) A conveyance pursuant to this section shall be contingent upon the County
 executing an agreement with the United States prior to such conveyance,
 the terms of which are acceptable to the Secretary of Agriculture, and that
 permanently holds the United States harmless for liability and indemnifies
 the United States against all costs arising from the United States ownership
 or any and all activities, operations (including the storing, handling, and
 dumping of hazardous materials or substances), or other acts conducted by
 Summit County or its licensees, employees, agents, successors or assigns on
 the four hundred and seventy-seven acres transferred pursuant to this Act,
 whether such activities, operations, or other acts occurred prior to, on, or
 after the date of enactment of this Act. Such agreement shall be incorporated
 in the patent issued by the Secretary of the Interior for the land conveyed.
 (b) INCORPORATION OF CONDITIONS- The Secretary of the Interior shall
 incorporate the conditions specified in subsection (a) of this section in
 any patent conveying lands to Summit County pursuant to this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.