 
--H.R.91--
H.R.91
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To prohibit exports of military equipment to countries supporting international
terrorism, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Anti-Terrorism and Arms
 Export Amendments Act of 1989'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Prohibition on arms transactions with countries supporting terrorism.
Sec. 3. Considerations in issuance of arms export licenses and in arms sales.
Sec. 4. Exports to countries supporting terrorism.
Sec. 5. Prohibition on assistance to countries supporting international
terrorism.
Sec. 6. Designation of items on the munitions list.
Sec. 7. Quarterly reports on third country transfers and on DOD transfers
to other agencies.
Sec. 8. Special authorities.
Sec. 9. Hostage Act.
Sec. 10. Self-defense in accordance with international law.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON ARMS TRANSACTIONS WITH COUNTRIES SUPPORTING TERRORISM.
 (a) PROHIBITION- Section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780)
 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 40. TRANSACTIONS WITH COUNTRIES SUPPORTING ACTS OF INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM.
 `(a) PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT- The following
 transactions by the United States Government are prohibited:
 `(1) Exporting or otherwise providing (by sale, lease or loan, grant,
 or other means), directly or indirectly, any munitions item to a country
 described in subsection (d) under the authority of this Act, the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961, or any other law (except as provided in subsection
 (h)). In implementing this paragraph, the United States Government--
 `(A) shall suspend delivery to such country of any such item pursuant to
 any such transaction which has not been completed at the time the Secretary
 of State makes the determination described in subsection (d), and
 `(B) shall terminate any lease or loan to such country of any such item which
 is in effect at the time the Secretary of State makes that determination.
 `(2) Providing credits, guarantees, or other financial assistance under the
 authority of this Act, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or any other law
 (except as provided in subsection (h)), with respect to the acquisition of
 any munitions item by a country described in subsection (d). In implementing
 this paragraph, the United States Government shall suspend expenditures
 pursuant to any such assistance obligated before the Secretary of State makes
 the determination described in subsection (d). The President may authorize
 expenditures otherwise required to be suspended pursuant to the preceding
 sentence if the President has determined, and reported to the Congress,
 that suspension of those expenditures causes undue financial hardship to
 a supplier, shipper, or similar person and allowing the expenditure will
 not result in any munitions item being made available for use by such country.
 `(3) Consenting under section 3(a) of this Act, under section 505(a) of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, under the regulations issued to carry
 out section 38 of this Act, or under any other law (except as provided
 in subsection (h)), to any transfer of any munitions item to a country
 described in subsection (d). In implementing this paragraph, the United
 States Government shall withdraw any such consent which is in effect at the
 time the Secretary of State makes the determination described in subsection
 (d), except that this sentence does not apply with respect to any item that
 has already been transferred to such country.
 `(4) Providing any license or other approval under section 38 of this
 Act for any export or other transfer (including by means of a technical
 assistance agreement, manufacturing licensing agreement, or coproduction
 agreement) of any munitions item to a country described in subsection
 (d). In implementing this paragraph, the United States Government shall
 suspend any such license or other approval which is in effect at the time
 the Secretary of State makes the determination described in subsection (d),
 except that this sentence does not apply with respect to any item that has
 already been exported or otherwise transferred to such country.
 `(5) Otherwise facilitating the acquisition of any munitions item by a
 country described in subsection (d). This paragraph applies with respect
 to activities undertaken--
 `(A) by any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Government,
 `(B) by any officer or employee of the Government (including members of
 the United States Armed Forces), or
 `(C) by any other person at the request or on behalf of the Government.
The Secretary of State may waive the requirements of the second sentence of
paragraph (1), the second sentence of paragraph (3), and the second sentence of
paragraph (4) to the extent that the Secretary determines, after consultation
with the Congress, that unusual and compelling circumstances require that
the United States Government not take the actions specified in that sentence.
 `(b) PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS BY UNITED STATES PERSONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A United States person may not take any of the following
 actions:
 `(A) Exporting any munitions item to any country described in subsection (d).
 `(B) Selling, leasing, loaning, granting, or otherwise providing any
 munitions item to any country described in subsection (d).
 `(C) Selling, leasing, loaning, granting, or otherwise providing any munitions
 item to any recipient which is not the government of or a person in a country
 described in subsection (d) if the United States person has reason to know
 that the munitions item will be made available to any country described in
 subsection (d).
 `(D) Taking any other action which would facilitate the acquisition,
 directly or indirectly, of any munitions item by the government of any
 country described in subsection (d), or any person acting on behalf of that
 government, if the United States person has reason to know that that action
 will facilitate the acquisition of that item by such a government or person.
 `(2) LIABILITY FOR ACTIONS OF FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES, ETC- A United States
 person violates this subsection if a corporation or other person that
 is controlled in fact by that United States person (as determined under
 regulations, which the President shall issue) takes an action described in
 paragraph (1) outside the United States.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY TO ACTIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES- Paragraph (1) applies
 with respect to actions described in that paragraph which are taken either
 within or outside the United States by a United States person described in
 subsection (l)(3) (A) or (B). To the extent provided in regulations issued
 under subsection (l)(3)(D), paragraph (1) applies with respect to actions
 described in that paragraph which are taken outside the United States by
 a person designated as a United States person in those regulations.
 `(c) TRANSFERS TO GOVERNMENTS AND PERSONS COVERED- This section applies
 with respect to--
 `(1) the acquisition of munitions items by the government of a country
 described in subsection (d); and
 `(2) the acquisition of munitions items by any individual, group, or other
 person within a country described in subsection (d), except to the extent
 that subparagraph (D) of subsection (b)(1) provides otherwise.
 `(d) COUNTRIES COVERED BY PROHIBITION- The prohibitions contained in this
 section apply with respect to a country if the Secretary of State determines
 that the government of that country has repeatedly provided support for
 acts of international terrorism.
 `(e) PUBLICATION OF DETERMINATIONS- Each determination of the Secretary of
 State under subsection (d) shall be published in the Federal Register.
 `(f) RESCISSION- A determination made by the Secretary of State under
 subsection (d) may not be rescinded unless the President submits to the
 Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee
 on Foreign Relations of the Senate--
 `(1) before the proposed rescission would take effect, a report certifying
 that--
 `(A) there has been a fundamental change in the leadership and policies of
 the government of the country concerned;
 `(B) that government is not supporting acts of international terrorism; and
 `(C) that government has provided assurances that it will not support acts
 of international terrorism in the future; or
 `(2) at least 45 days before the proposed rescission would take effect,
 a report justifying the rescission and certifying that--
 `(A) the government concerned has not provided any support for international
 terrorism during the preceding 6-month period; and
 `(B) the government concerned has provided assurances that it will not
 support acts of international terrorism in the future.
 `(g) WAIVER- The President may waive the prohibitions contained in this
 section with respect to a specific transaction if--
 `(1) the President determines that the transaction is essential to the
 national security interests of the United States; and
 `(2) not less than 15 days prior to the proposed transaction, the President--
 `(A) consults with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
 `(B) submits to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman
 of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report containing--
 `(i) the name of any country involved in the proposed transaction, the
 identity of any recipient of the items to be provided pursuant to the
 proposed transaction, and the anticipated use of those items;
 `(ii) a description of the munitions items involved in the proposed
 transaction (including their market value) and the actual sale price at each
 step in the transaction (or if the items are transferred by other than sale,
 the manner in which they will be provided);
 `(iii) the reasons why the proposed transaction is essential to the national
 security interests of the United States and the justification for such
 proposed transaction;
 `(iv) the date on which the proposed transaction is expected to occur; and
 `(v) the name of every United States Government department, agency, or
 other entity involved in the proposed transaction, every foreign government
 involved in the proposed transaction, and every private party with significant
 participation in the proposed transaction.
To the extent possible, the information specified in subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (2) shall be provided in unclassified form, with any classified
information provided in an addendum to the report.
 `(h) EXEMPTION FOR TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO NATIONAL SECURITY ACT REPORTING
 REQUIREMENTS- The prohibitions contained in this section do not apply with
 respect to any transaction subject to reporting requirements under title
 V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.; relating to
 congressional oversight of intelligence activities).
 `(i) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- With regard to munitions items controlled pursuant to this
 Act, the provisions of this section shall apply notwithstanding any other
 provision of law, other than section 614(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2364(a)).
 `(2) SECTION 614(a) WAIVER AUTHORITY- If the authority of section 614(a)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is used to permit a transaction under
 that Act or the Arms Export Control Act which is otherwise prohibited by
 this section, the written policy justification required by that section shall
 include the information specified in subsection (g)(2)(B) of this section.
 `(j) CRIMINAL PENALTY- Any person who willfully violates this section shall
 be fined for each violation not more than $1,000,000, imprisoned not more
 than 10 years, or both.
 `(k) CIVIL PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT- In the enforcement of this section, the
 President is authorized to exercise the same powers concerning violations and
 enforcement which are conferred upon departments, agencies, and officials
 by sections 11(c), 11(e), 11(g), and 12(a) of the Export Administration
 Act of 1979 (subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable
 to such powers under that Act), except that, notwithstanding section 11(c)
 of that Act, the civil penalty for each violation of this section may not
 exceed $500,000.
 `(l) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `munitions item' means any item enumerated on the United
 States Munitions list (without regard to whether the item is imported into
 or exported from the United States);
 `(2) the term `United States', when used geographically, means the several
 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
 Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession
 of the United States; and
 `(3) the term `United States person' means--
 `(A) any citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States;
 `(B) any sole proprietorship, partnership, company, association, or
 corporation having its principal place of business within the United States
 or organized under the laws of the United States, any State, the District of
 Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern
 Mariana Islands, or any territory or possession of the United States;
 `(C) any other person with respect to that person's actions while in the
 United States; and
 `(D) to the extent provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of State,
 any person that is not described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) but--
 `(i) is a foreign subsidiary or affiliate of a United States person described
 in subparagraph (B) and is controlled in fact by that United States person
 (as determined in accordance with those regulations), or
 `(ii) is otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
with respect to that person's actions while outside the United States.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 3(f) of the Arms Export Control Act
 (22 U.S.C. 2753(f)) is repealed.
SEC. 3. CONSIDERATIONS IN ISSUANCE OF ARMS EXPORT LICENSES AND IN ARMS SALES.
 (a) EXPORT LICENSES- Section 38(a)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act (22
 U.S.C. 2778) is amended by inserting `support international terrorism,'
 after `arms race,'.
 (b) ARMS SALES- Section 36(b)(1)(D) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(b)(1)(D))
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating clauses (ii) through (iv) as clauses (iii) through
 (v), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting the following new clause (ii) after clause (i):
 `(ii) support international terrorism;'.
SEC. 4. EXPORTS TO COUNTRIES SUPPORTING TERRORISM.
 Section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App 2405(j))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(j) COUNTRIES SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM- (1) A validated license
 shall be required for the export of goods or technology to a country if
 the Secretary of State has made the following determinations:
 `(A) The government of such country has repeatedly provided support for
 acts of international terrorism.
 `(B) The export of such goods or technology could make a significant
 contribution to the military potential of such country, including its
 military logistics capability, or could enhance the ability of such country
 to support acts of international terrorism.
 `(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of State shall notify the Committee on
 Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
 Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
 Senate at least 30 days before issuing any validated license required by
 paragraph (1).
 `(3) Each determination of the Secretary of State under paragraph (1)(A),
 including each determination in effect on the date of the enactment of the
 Antiterrorism and Arms Export Amendments Act of 1989, shall be published
 in the Federal Register.
 `(4) A determination made by the Secretary of State under paragraph (1)(A)
 may not be rescinded unless the President submits to the Speaker of the
 House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Banking,
 Housing, and Urban Affairs and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
 Relations of the Senate--
 `(A) before the proposed rescission would take effect, a report certifying
 that--
 `(i) there has been a fundamental change in the leadership and policies of
 the government of the country concerned;
 `(ii) that government is not supporting acts of international terrorism; and
 `(iii) that government has provided assurances that it will not support
 acts of international terrorism in the future; or
 `(B) at least 45 days before the proposed rescission would take effect,
 a report justifying the rescission and certifying that--
 `(i) the government concerned has not provided any support for international
 terrorism during the preceding 6-month period; and
 `(ii) the government concerned has provided assurances that it will not
 support acts of international terrorism in the future.'.
SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM.
 Section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371) is
 amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 620A. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENTS SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM.
 `(a) PROHIBITION- The United States shall not provide any assistance under
 this Act, the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
 the Peace Corps Act, or the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 to any country
 if the Secretary of State determines that the government of that country
 has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
 `(b) PUBLICATION OF DETERMINATIONS- Each determination of the Secretary of
 State under subsection (a), including each determination in effect on the
 date of the enactment of the Antiterrorism and Arms Export Amendments Act
 of 1989, shall be published in the Federal Register.
 `(c) RESCISSION- A determination made by the Secretary of State under
 subsection (a) may not be rescinded unless the President submits to the
 Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee
 on Foreign Relations of the Senate--
 `(1) before the proposed rescission would take effect, a report certifying
 that--
 `(A) there has been a fundamental change in the leadership and policies of
 the government of the country concerned;
 `(B) that government is not supporting acts of international terrorism; and
 `(C) that government has provided assurances that it will not support acts
 of international terrorism in the future; or
 `(2) at least 45 days before the proposed rescission would take effect,
 a report justifying the rescission and certifying that--
 `(A) the government concerned has not provided any support for international
 terrorism during the preceding 6-month period; and
 `(B) the government concerned has provided assurances that it will not
 support acts of international terrorism in the future.
 `(d) WAIVER- Assistance prohibited by subsection (a) may be provided to a
 country described in that subsection if--
 `(1) the President determines that national security interests or humanitarian
 reasons justify a waiver of subsection (a), except that humanitarian
 reasons may not be used to justify assistance under part II of this Act
 (including chapter 4, chapter 6, and chapter 8), or the Export-Import Bank
 Act of 1945; and
 `(2) at least 15 days before the waiver takes effect, the President consults
 with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate regarding the proposed waiver
 and submits a report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
 the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate containing--
 `(A) the name of the recipient country;
 `(B) a description of the national security interests or humanitarian
 reasons which require the waiver;
 `(C) the type and amount of and the justification for the assistance to be
 provided pursuant to the waiver; and
 `(D) the period of time during which such waiver will be effective.
The waiver authority granted in this subsection may not be used to provide any
assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which is also prohibited
by section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act.'.
SEC. 6. DESIGNATION OF ITEMS ON THE MUNITIONS LIST.
 Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2278) is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
 `(h) The designation by the President (or by an official to whom the
 President's functions under subsection (a) have been duly delegated),
 in regulations issued under this section, of items as defense articles
 or defense services for purposes of this section shall not be subject to
 judicial review.'.
SEC. 7. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON THIRD COUNTRY TRANSFERS AND ON DOD TRANSFERS
TO OTHER AGENCIES.
 (a) QUARTERLY REPORTS- Section 36(a) of the Arms Export Control Act (22
 U.S.C. 2776(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (9) and inserting
 in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
 `(10) a listing of the consents to third-party transfers of defense articles
 or defense services which were granted, during the quarter for which such
 report is submitted, for purposes of section 3(a)(2) of this Act, the
 regulations issued under section 38 of this Act, or section 505(a)(1)(B)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, if the value (in terms of original
 acquisition cost) of the defense articles or defense services to be
 transferred is $1,000,000 or more; and
 `(11) a listing of all munitions items (as defined in section 40(l)(1))
 which were sold, leased, or otherwise transferred by the Department of
 Defense to any other department, agency, or other entity of the United
 States Government during the quarter for which such report is submitted
 (including the name of the recipient Government entity and a discussion of
 what that entity will do with those munitions items) if--
 `(A) the value of the munitions items was $250,000 or more; or
 `(B) the value of all munitions items transferred to that Government
 department, agency, or other entity during that quarter was $250,000 or more;
excluding munitions items transferred (i) for disposition or use solely
within the United States, or (ii) for use in connection with intelligence
activities subject to reporting requirements under title V of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.; relating to congressional
oversight of intelligence activities).'.
 (b) CLASSIFICATION OF REPORTS- That section is amended in the parenthetical
 clause in the text preceding paragraph (1) by inserting `, and any information
 provided under paragraph (11) of this subsection may also be provided in
 a classified addendum' after `(b)(1) of this section'.
SEC. 8. SPECIAL AUTHORITIES.
 The second sentence of section 614(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2364(c)) is amended to read as follows: `The President shall
 fully inform the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on
 Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the chairman and ranking
 minority member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate of each
 use of funds under this subsection prior to the use of such funds.'.
SEC. 9. HOSTAGE ACT.
 Section 2001 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (22 U.S.C. 1732)
 is amended by inserting `and not otherwise prohibited by law' after `acts
 of war'.
SEC. 10. SELF-DEFENSE IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL LAW.
 The use by any government of armed force in the exercise of individual
 or collective self-defense in accordance with applicable international
 agreements and customary international law shall not be considered an act
 of international terrorism for purposes of the amendments made by this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.