 
--S.1180--
S.1180
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize the President to appoint Rear Admiral Richard Harrison Truly
to the Office of Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That notwithstanding the provisions
 of section 202(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (42
 U.S.C. 2472(a)), or any other provision of law, the President, acting by
 and with the advice and consent of the Senate, is authorized to appoint
 Rear Admiral Richard Harrison Truly to the Office of Administrator of the
 National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Admiral Truly's appointment
 to, acceptance of, and service in that Office shall in no way affect the
 status, rank, and grade which he holds as an officer on the retired list
 of the United States Navy, or any emolument, perquisite, right, privilege,
 or benefit incident to or arising out of any such status, office, rank,
 or grade, except to the extent that subchapter IV of chapter 55 of title
 5, United States Code, affects the amount of retired pay to which he is
 entitled by law during his service as Administrator. So long as he serves
 as Administrator, Admiral Truly shall receive the compensation of that
 Office at the rate which would be applicable if he were not an officer
 on the retired list of the United States Navy, shall retain the status,
 rank, and grade which he now holds as an officer on the retired list of
 the United States Navy, shall retain all emoluments, perquisites, rights,
 privileges, and benefits incident to or arising out of such status, office,
 rank, or grade, and shall in addition continue to receive the retired pay
 to which he is entitled by law, subject to the provisions of subchapter IV
 of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code.
 SEC. 2. In the performance of his duties as Administrator of the National
 Aeronautics and Space Administration, Admiral Truly shall be subject to no
 supervision, control, restriction, or prohibition (military or otherwise)
 other than would be operative with respect to him if he were not an officer
 on the retired list of the United States Navy.
 SEC. 3. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as approval by the Congress of
 any future appointments of military persons to the Offices of Administrator
 and Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.