 
--S.1390--
S.1390
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide for the construction of biomedical facilities in order to ensure
a continued supply of specialized strains of mice essential to biomedical
research in the United States, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY FOR CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
FACILITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Of the aggregate amounts appropriated for fiscal years 1990
 and 1991 to carry out the purposes of title IV of the Public Health Service
 Act through the National Institutes of Health, the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services, acting through the Director of the National Institutes of
 Health, may reserve not more than $25,000,000 for entering into a contract
 with a public or nonprofit private entity for constructing facilities for
 the purpose of the development and breeding of specialized strains of mice
 (including inbred and mutant mice) for use in biomedical research.
 (b) COMPETITIVE AWARD PROCESS- The contract under subsection (a) may
 be awarded only on a competitive basis after review in accordance with
 section 4(a).
SEC. 2. TWENTY-YEAR OBLIGATION WITH RESPECT TO BREEDING OF SPECIALIZED MICE
FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not enter into a contract under section
 1 unless, subject to subsection (b), the applicant for the contract agrees
 that--
 (1) throughout the 20-year period beginning 90-days after the date of the
 completion of the construction of facilities pursuant to the contract, the
 facilities will be utilized only for the purpose described in section 1(a);
 (2) during such period, the applicant will, to the extent practicable, develop
 and breed such mice in numbers sufficient to assist in meeting the need for
 such mice in biomedical research conducted or supported by the Secretary; and
 (3) during such period, the applicant will, upon the request of the Secretary,
 sell such mice to the Secretary for purposes of such research at a price
 reasonably related to the cost of the production of the mice.
 (b) TRANSFER OF OBLIGATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- With respect to the obligation under subsection (a), the
 contractor under section 1 (and any transferee or purchaser under this
 subsection) may--
 (A) transfer the obligation to a public or nonprofit private entity if the
 proposed transferee has entered into a contract with the Secretary to assume
 the obligation; and
 (B) convey its interest in the facilities involved if the proposed purchaser
 of the interest is a public or nonprofit entity that has entered into a
 contract with the Secretary to assume the obligation.
 (2) TRANSFER PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION- If, for purposes of
 paragraph (1), a transfer or conveyance is proposed to be made before
 the completion of the construction of facilities pursuant to section 1,
 the Secretary may not authorize the transfer or conveyance unless the
 agreement involved provides that the transferee or purchaser will assume
 all remaining responsibilities under any agreements made pursuant to this
 Act by the contractor under such section and the Federal Government.
 (3) TERMINATION OF OBLIGATION- If, for purposes of paragraphs (1) and
 (2), a transfer or conveyance is made in accordance with such paragraphs,
 the obligation pursuant to subsection (a), and all other responsibilities
 pursuant to this Act, of the transferor involved shall terminate.
 (c) REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS PUBLIC OR NONPROFIT PRIVATE ENTITY- The Secretary
 may not enter into any agreement under subsection (a) or (b) unless the
 agreement provides that the obligation involved includes the requirement that
 the obligation may be satisfied only by a public or nonprofit private entity.
 (d) ASSURANCES OF SUFFICIENT FINANCIAL RESOURCES-
 (1) ORIGINAL CONTRACTOR- The Secretary may not enter into a contract
 under section 1 unless the applicant for the contract provides assurances
 satisfactory to the Secretary that, throughout the 20-year period described
 in subsection (a), the applicant will have access to financial resources
 sufficient to comply with the agreement under such subsection.
 (2) TRANSFEREES AND PURCHASERS- The Secretary may not approve a transfer or
 conveyance under subsection (b) unless the transferee or purchaser provides
 assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that, throughout the remaining
 portion of the 20-year period described in subsection (a), the transferee
 or purchaser will have access to financial resources sufficient to comply
 with its obligation pursuant to such subsection.
SEC. 3. REQUIREMENT OF MATCHING FUNDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not enter into a contract under section 1
 unless the applicant for the contract agrees, with respect to the costs to
 be incurred by the applicant in carrying out the purpose described in such
 section, to make available (directly or through donations from public or
 private entities) contributions toward such costs in an amount equal to $1 for
 each $3 of Federal funds provided pursuant to the contract under section 1.
 (b) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF CONTRIBUTION- Contributions required in
 subsection (a) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including
 existing plant and equipment or services throughout the 20-year period
 described in section 2(a)(1) (and including such specialized strains of mice
 as the Secretary may request for purposes of biomedical research). Amounts
 provided by any agency of the Federal Government other than the Department
 of Health and Human Services, and services assisted or subsidized by any
 such agency, shall be included in the amount of such contributions.
SEC. 4. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION PLAN-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not enter into a contract under section
 1 unless the applicant for the contract submits to the Secretary a plan
 for the construction of facilities pursuant to such section and unless the
 Secretary approves the plan. The Secretary may not approve such a plan
 unless the plan has been recommended for approval by the panel convened
 under paragraph (2)(A).
 (2) EXPERT PANEL FOR ADVISING SECRETARY WITH RESPECT TO PLAN-
 (A) The Secretary shall convene a panel of appropriately qualified individuals
 for the purpose of providing architectural, financial, and scientific advice
 to the Secretary regarding appropriate standards and specifications for the
 construction, financing, and use of facilities pursuant to section 1. The
 panel may not approve a plan submitted under paragraph (1) unless the panel
 determines that amounts provided in the contract under section 1 will not,
 during the twenty-year period described in section 2(a), be expended to
 increase significantly, relative to April 1989, the sale of mice other than
 mutant and inbred strains of mice necessary for the conduct of biomedical
 research.
 (B) Members of the panel convened under paragraph (1) who are officers or
 employees of the United States may not receive compensation for service on the
 panel in addition to the compensation otherwise received for duties carried
 out as such officers or employees. Other members of such panel shall receive
 compensation for each day (including traveltime) engaged in carrying out
 the duties of the panel. Such compensation may not be in an amount in excess
 of the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
 (b) SITE OF CONSTRUCTION- The Secretary may not enter into a contract under
 section 1 unless--
 (1) the applicant for the contract provides to the Secretary a description
 of the site for the construction of facilities pursuant to such section; and
 (2) the Secretary determines that title to the site is vested in the
 applicant or that the applicant has a sufficient possessory interest in
 such site for the twenty-year period described in section 2(a).
 (c) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may not enter into a contract
 under section 1 unless--
 (1) an application for the contract is submitted to the Secretary;
 (2) the application contains the agreements required in this Act and provides
 assurances of compliance satisfactory to the Secretary; and
 (3) the application otherwise is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to carry out this Act.
SEC. 5. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH AGREEMENTS.
 (a) REPAYMENT OF PAYMENTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), require the
 contractor under section 1 to repay any payments received under such section
 by the contractor that the Secretary determines were not expended by the
 contractor in accordance with the agreements required to be contained in
 the application submitted by the contractor pursuant to section 4(c).
 (2) OFFSET AGAINST CURRENT PAYMENTS- If a contractor under section 1 fails
 to make a repayment required in paragraph (1), the Secretary may offset
 the amount of the repayment against the amount of any payment due to be
 paid under such section to the contractor.
 (b) WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), withhold
 payments due under section 1 if the Secretary determines that the contractor
 under such section is not expending payments received under such section in
 accordance with the agreements required to be contained in the application
 submitted by the contractor pursuant to section 4(c).
 (2) TERMINATION OF WITHHOLDING- The Secretary shall cease withholding
 payments under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that there are
 reasonable assurances that the contractor under section 1 will expend amounts
 received under such section in accordance with the agreements referred to
 in such paragraph.
 (3) EFFECT OF MINOR NONCOMPLIANCE- The Secretary may not withhold funds
 under paragraph (1) from the contractor under section 1 for a minor failure
 to comply with the agreements referred to in such paragraph.
 (c) OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING- Before requiring repayment of payments under
 subsection (a)(1), or withholding payments under subsection (b)(1), the
 Secretary shall provide to the contractor under section 1 an opportunity
 for a hearing conducted within the State in which facilities are constructed
 pursuant to such section.
SEC. 6. RECOVERY PROCEEDINGS FOR VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
MINIMUM PERIOD OF BREEDING OF SPECIALIZED MICE.
 (a) RIGHT OF RECOVERY- If the contractor under section 1, or any transferee
 or purchaser under section 2, violates its obligation under such section
 (including any violation under subsection (c) of such section), the United
 States shall be entitled to recover an amount equal to the sum of--
 (1) an amount determined in accordance with paragraph (1)(A) of subsection
 (b); and
 (2) an amount determined in accordance with paragraph (2)(A) of such
 subsection.
 (b) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNTS-
 (1) FEDERAL PERCENTAGE OF FAIR MARKET VALUE-
 (A) The amount referred to in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) is the
 product of--
 (i) an amount equal to the fair market value, during the period in which
 recovery is sought under subsection (a), of the facilities constructed
 pursuant to section 1, as determined in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
 (ii) a percentage equal to the quotient of--
 (I) the total amounts provided by the Federal Government for the construction
 of such facilities; divided by
 (II) the total costs of the construction of such facilities.
 (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), fair market value shall be
 determined through--
 (i) an agreement entered into by the United States and the entity from whom
 the United States is seeking recovery under subsection (a); or
 (ii) an action brought in the district court of the United States for the
 district in which the facilities involved are located.
 (2) INTEREST-
 (A) The amount referred to in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) is an amount
 representing interest on the amount determined under paragraph (1). Such
 interest shall accrue during the period described in subparagraph (B) and
 shall accrue at a rate determined by the Secretary on the basis of the average
 of the bond equivalent of the weekly 90-day Treasury bill auction rate.
 (B) The period referred to in subparagraph (A) is the period--
 (i) beginning on the date of the violation of the obligation under section 2,
 or if the entity involved provides notice to the Secretary of the violation
 not later than 10 days after the date of the violation, beginning on the
 expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date that the notice is
 received by the Secretary; and
 (ii) ending on the date on which the United States collects the amount
 determined under paragraph (1).
 (c) WAIVER OF RECOVERY RIGHTS- The Secretary may waive, in whole or in part,
 the right of the United States to recover amounts under this section for
 good cause shown, as determined by the Secretary.
 (d) CLARIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO LIEN ON FACILITIES- The right of recovery
 of the United States under subsection (a) shall not constitute a lien on
 the facilities involved with respect to which such recovery is sought.
SEC. 7. DEFINITION.
 For purposes of this Act, the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services.
SEC. 8. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT WITH RESPECT TO AUTHORITY FOR CONSTRUCTION
OF FACILITIES.
 Section 496 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289e) is amended--
 (1) by striking the first sentence;
 (2) by inserting `(a)' after the section designation; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(b)(1) None of the amounts appropriated under this Act for the purposes of
 this title may be obligated for the construction of facilities (including the
 acquisition of land) unless a provision of this title establishes express
 authority for such purpose and unless the Act making appropriations under
 such provision specifies that the amounts appropriated are available for
 such purpose.
 `(2) Any grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts authorized in
 this title for the construction of facilities may be awarded only on a
 competitive basis.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.