 
--S.1430--
S.1430
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To enhance national and community service, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `National and Community
 Service Act of 1990'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purposes.
TITLE I--NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE STATE GRANT PROGRAM
Subtitle A--General Provisions
Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Authority to make State grants.
Subtitle B--School-Aged Service
Part I--General Program
Sec. 110. Short title.
Sec. 111. General authority.
Sec. 112. Allotments.
Sec. 113. State application.
Sec. 114. Local applications.
Sec. 115. Priority; private school participation.
Sec. 116. Federal and local contributions.
Sec. 117. Uses of funds; limitations.
Part II--Higher Education Innovative Projects for Community Service
Sec. 118. Higher education innovative projects for community service.
Subtitle C--American Conservation and Youth Corps
Sec. 120. Short title.
Sec. 121. General authority.
Sec. 122. Allocation of funds.
Sec. 123. State application.
Sec. 124. Focus of programs.
Sec. 125. Related programs.
Sec. 126. Public lands or Indian lands.
Sec. 127. Training and education services.
Sec. 128. Amount of award; matching requirement.
Sec. 129. Preference for certain projects.
Sec. 130. Age and citizenship criteria for enrollment.
Sec. 131. Use of volunteers.
Sec. 132. Post-service benefits.
Sec. 133. Living allowance.
Sec. 134. Joint programs.
Sec. 135. Federal and State employee status.
Sec. 136. Regulations and assistance.
Subtitle D--National and Community Service
Sec. 140. Short title.
Sec. 141. General authority.
Sec. 142. Grants.
Sec. 143. Types of national service.
Sec. 144. Terms of service.
Sec. 145. Eligibility.
Sec. 146. Post-service benefits.
Sec. 147. Living allowance.
Sec. 148. Training.
Sec. 149. Public-private partnership.
Sec. 150. In-service education benefits.
Subtitle E--Innovative and Demonstration Programs and Projects
Part I--Limitation on grants
Sec. 155. Limitation on grants.
Part II--Governors' Innovative Service Programs
Sec. 156. General authority.
Sec. 157. Grants.
Part III--Peace Corps
Sec. 160. Program authorized.
Sec. 161. Eligibility and selection procedures.
Sec. 162. Training program.
Sec. 163. Educational benefits.
Sec. 164. Evaluation and report.
Part IV--Other Volunteer Programs
Sec. 165. Rural youth service demonstration project.
Sec. 166. Assistance for Head Start.
Sec. 167. Employer-based retiree volunteer programs.
Subtitle F--Administrative Provisions
Sec. 171. Limitation on number of grants.
Sec. 172. Reports.
Sec. 173. Supplementation.
Sec. 174. Prohibition on use of funds.
Sec. 175. Nondiscrimination.
Sec. 176. Notice, hearing, and grievance procedures.
Sec. 177. Nonduplication and nondisplacement.
Sec. 178. State advisory board.
Sec. 179. Evaluation.
Sec. 180. Engagement of participants.
Sec. 181. National Service Demonstration Program amendments.
Sec. 182. Partnerships with schools.
Sec. 183. Service as tutors.
Sec. 184. Drug-free workplace requirements.
Sec. 185. Conforming amendments.
Subtitle G--Commission on National and Community Service
Sec. 190. Commission on National and Community Service.
TITLE II--MODIFICATIONS OF EXISTING PROGRAMS
Subtitle A--Publication
Sec. 201. Information for students.
Sec. 202. Exit counseling for borrowers.
Sec. 203. Department information on deferments and cancellations.
Sec. 204. Data on deferments and cancellations.
Subtitle B--Youthbuild Projects
Sec. 211. Youthbuild projects.
Subtitle C--Amendments to Student Literacy Corps
Sec. 221. Amendments to Student Literacy Corps.
TITLE III--POINTS OF LIGHT FOUNDATION
Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 303. Authority.
Sec. 304. Grants to the Foundation.
Sec. 305. Eligibility of the Foundation for grants.
TITLE IV--FOOD DONATIONS
Sec. 401. Sense of Congress concerning enactment of Good Samaritan Food
Donation Act.
Sec. 402. Model Good Samaritan Food Donation Act.
Sec. 403. Effect of section 402.
TITLE V--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
Sec. 501. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 601. Amtrak waste disposal.
Sec. 602. Exchange program with countries in transition from totalitarianism
to Democracy.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
 It is the purpose of this Act to--
 (1) renew the ethic of civic responsibility in the United States;
 (2) ask citizens of the United States, regardless of age or income, to
 engage in full-time or part-time service to the Nation;
 (3) begin to call young people to serve in programs that will benefit the
 Nation and improve the life chances of the young through the acquisition
 of literacy and job skills;
 (4) enable young Americans to make a sustained commitment to service by
 removing barriers to service that have been created by high education costs,
 loan indebtedness, and the cost of housing;
 (5) build on the existing organizational framework of Federal, State,
 and local programs and agencies to expand full-time and part-time service
 opportunities for all citizens, particularly youth and older Americans;
 (6) involve participants in activities that would not otherwise be performed
 by employed workers; and
 (7) generate additional service hours each year to help meet human,
 educational, environmental, and public safety needs, particularly those
 needs relating to poverty.
TITLE I--NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE STATE GRANT PROGRAM
Subtitle A--General Provisions
SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this title:
 (1) ADULT VOLUNTEER- The term `adult volunteer' means--
 (A) an individual who is beyond the age of compulsory schooling, including
 an older American, an individual with a disability, and a parent;
 (B) an employee of a private business;
 (C) an employee of a public or nonprofit agency; or
 (D) any other individual working without financial remuneration in an
 education institution to assist students or out-of-school youth.
 (2) COMMISSION- The term `Commission' means the Commission on National and
 Community Service established under section 190.
 (3) COMMUNITY-BASED AGENCY- The term `community-based agency' means a
 private nonprofit organization that is representative of a community or a
 significant segment of a community and that is engaged in meeting human,
 educational, or environmental community needs, including churches and other
 religious entities and community action agencies.
 (4) CREW SUPERVISOR- The term `crew supervisor' means the adult staff
 individual who is responsible for supervising a crew of participants,
 including the crew leader.
 (5) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED- The term `economically disadvantaged' with
 respect to youths has the same meaning given such term in section 4(8)
 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(8)).
 (6) ELEMENTARY SCHOOL- The term `elementary school' has the same meaning
 given such term in section 1471(8) of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(8)).
 (7) INDIAN LANDS- The term `Indian lands' means any real property owned by
 an Indian tribe, any real property held in trust by the United States for
 Indian tribes, and any real property held by Indian tribes that is subject
 to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States.
 (8) INDIAN TRIBE- The term `Indian tribe' means an Indian tribe, band, nation,
 or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village
 or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant
 to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) that
 is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided
 by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
 (9) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION- The term `institution of higher
 education' has the same meaning given such term in section 1201(a) of the
 Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)).
 (10) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- The term `local educational agency' has
 the same meaning given such term in section 1471(12) of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(12)).
 (11) LOCAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY- The term `local government agency' means
 a public agency that is engaged in meeting human, social, educational,
 or environmental needs.
 (12) OUT-OF-SCHOOL YOUTH- The term `out-of-school youth' means an individual
 who--
 (A) has not attained the age of 27;
 (B) has not completed college or the equivalent thereof; and
 (C) is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of
 higher education.
 (13) PARTICIPANT- The term `participant' means an individual enrolled in
 a program that receives assistance under this title.
 (14) PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM- The term `partnership program' means a program
 through which adult volunteers, public or private agencies, institutions
 of higher education, or businesses assist a local educational agency.
 (15) PLACEMENT- The term `placement' means the matching of a participant
 with a specific project.
 (16) PROGRAM- The term `program' means an activity carried out with assistance
 provided under this title.
 (17) PROGRAM AGENCY- The term `program agency' means--
 (A) a Federal or State agency designated to manage a youth corps program;
 (B) the governing body of an Indian tribe that administers a youth corps
 program; or
 (C) a local applicant administering a youth corps program.
 (18) PROJECT- The term `project' means an activity that results in a
 specific identifiable service or product that otherwise would not be done
 with existing funds, and that does not duplicate the routine services or
 functions of the employer to whom participants are assigned.
 (19) PUBLIC LANDS- The term `public lands' means any lands or waters (or
 interest therein) owned or administered by the United States or by an agency
 or instrumentality of a State or local government.
 (20) SECONDARY SCHOOL- The term `secondary school' has the same meaning
 given such term in section 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(21)).
 (21) SERVICE-LEARNING- The term `service-learning' means a method--
 (A) under which students learn and develop through active participation
 in thoughtfully organized service experiences that meet actual community
 needs and that are coordinated in collaboration with the school and community;
 (B) that is integrated into the students' academic curriculum or provides
 structured time for a student to think, talk, or write about what the
 student did and saw during the actual service activity;
 (C) that provides students with opportunities to use newly acquired skills
 and knowledge in real-life situations in their own communities; and
 (D) that enhances what is taught in school by extending student learning
 beyond the classroom and into the community and helps to foster the
 development of  a sense of caring for others.
 (22) SERVICE OPPORTUNITY- The term `service opportunity' means a program
 or project, including service learning programs or projects, that enables
 students or out-of-school youth to perform meaningful and constructive
 service in agencies, institutions, and situations where the application of
 human talent and dedication may help to meet human, educational, linguistic,
 and environmental community needs, especially those relating to poverty.
 (23) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE MEMBER- The term `special senior service member'
 means an individual who is age 60 or over and willing to work full-time or
 part-time in conjunction with a full-time national service program.
 (24) SPONSORING ORGANIZATION- The term `sponsoring organization' means an
 organization, eligible to receive assistance under this title, that has
 been selected to provide a placement for a participant.
 (25) STATE- The term `State' means each of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
 American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau,
 until such time as the Compact of Free Association is ratified.
 (26) STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCY- The term `State educational agency' has
 the same meaning given such term in section 1471(23) of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(23)).
 (27) STUDENT- The term `student' means an individual who is enrolled in an
 elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education on a full-
 or part-time basis.
 (28) SUMMER PROGRAM- The term `summer program' means a youth corps program
 authorized under this title that is limited to the months of June, July,
 and August.
 (29) YOUTH CORPS PROGRAM- The term `youth corps program' means a program,
 such as a conservation corps or youth service program, that offers full-time,
 productive work (to be financed through stipends) with visible community
 benefits in a natural resource or human service setting and that gives
 participants a mix of work experience, basic and life skills, education,
 training, and support services.
SEC. 102. AUTHORITY TO MAKE STATE GRANTS.
 The Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this title, make
 grants to States, or to local applicants, to enable such States or applicants
 to carry out national or community service programs under subtitles B, C,
 D, or E.
Subtitle B--School-Aged Service
PART I--GENERAL PROGRAM
SEC. 110. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `Serve-America: The Community Service,
 Schools and Service-Learning Act of 1990'.
SEC. 111. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission, in consultation with the Secretary of
 Education, may make grants under section 102 to States or local applicants
 for--
 (1) planning and building State capacity (which may be accomplished through
 grants and contracts with qualified organizations) for implementing statewide,
 school-aged service-learning programs, including--
 (A) preservice and in-service training for teachers, supervisors, and
 personnel from community organizations in which service opportunities will
 be provided that will be conducted by qualified individuals or organizations
 that have experience in service-learning programs;
 (B) developing service-learning curricula, including age-appropriate learning
 components for students to analyze and apply their service experiences;
 (C) forming local partnerships to develop school-based community service
 programs in accordance with this subpart;
 (D) devising appropriate methods for research and evaluation of the
 educational value of youth service opportunities and the effect of youth
 service programs on communities;
 (E) establishing effective outreach and dissemination to ensure the
 broadest possible involvement of nonprofit community-based organizations and
 youth-service agencies with demonstrated effectiveness in their communities;
 and
 (F) integration of service-learning into academic curricula;
 (2) the implementation, operation, or expansion of statewide, school-based
 service-learning programs through State distribution of Federal funds made
 available under this subtitle to projects and activities coordinated and
 operated by local partnerships among--
 (A) local educational agencies; and
 (B) one or more community partners that--
 (i) shall include a public or private nonprofit organization that will make
 service opportunities available for participants, and that is representative
 of the community in which such services will be provided; and
 (ii) may include a private for-profit business organization or private
 elementary and secondary school;
 (3) the implementation, operation, or expansion of community service
 programs for school dropouts, out-of-school youth, and other youth through
 State distribution of Federal funds made available under this subtitle to
 projects and activities coordinated and operated by local partnerships among--
 (A) one or more public or private nonprofit organizations that work with
 disadvantaged youth; and
 (B) one or more community partners that shall include a public or private
 nonprofit organization that will make service opportunities available for
 participants; and
 (4) the implementation, operation, or expansion of programs involving
 adult volunteers in schools, or partnerships of schools and public or
 private organizations, to improve the education of at-risk students,
 school dropouts, and out-of-school youth through State distribution of
 Federal funds made available under this part to projects and activities
 coordinated and operated by local partnerships among--
 (A) local education agencies; and
 (B) one or more public or private nonprofit organization or private
 for-profit business.
 (b) DIRECT GRANTS- In any fiscal year in which a State does not participate
 in programs under this subtitle, the Commission may use the allotment of that
 State to make direct grants for the purposes described in subsection (a)
 to local applicants in that State. The Commission shall apply the criteria
 described in section 114 in evaluating such local applications.
SEC. 112. ALLOTMENTS.
 (a) RESERVATIONS- Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this subtitle
 for any fiscal year, the Commission shall reserve not more than 1 percent
 for payments to Indian tribes, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
 the Northern Mariana Islands and Palau, until such time as the Compact
 of Free Association is ratified, to be allotted in accordance with their
 respective needs.
 (b) ALLOTMENT- The remainder of the sums appropriated to carry out this
 subtitle shall be allotted among the States as follows:
 (1) From 50 percent of such remainder the Secretary shall allot to each
 State an amount which bears the same ratio to 50 percent of such remainder
 as the school-age population of the State bears to the school-age population
 of all States.
 (2) From 50 percent of such remainder the Secretary shall allot to each
 State an amount which bears the same ratio to 50 percent of such remainder
 as allocations to the State for the previous fiscal year under chapter 1
 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 bears to
 such allocations to all States.
 (c) LIMITATION- For any period during which a State is carrying out planning
 activities under section 111(a)(1) prior to implementation under section
 111(a)(2), a State may be paid not more than 25 percent of its allotment
 under this section.
 (d) REALLOTMENT- The amount of any State's allotment for any fiscal year
 under this section that the Commission determines will not be required for
 that fiscal year shall be available for reallotment to other States as the
 Commission may determine appropriate.
 (e) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding this section, if less than $20,000,000 is
 made available in each fiscal year to carry out this subtitle, the Commission
 shall award grants to States on a competitive basis.
 (f) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 (1) SCHOOL-AGE POPULATION- The term `school-age population' means the
 population aged 5 through 17, inclusive.
 (2) STATE- The term `State' includes the 50 States, the District of Columbia,
 and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
SEC. 113. STATE APPLICATION.
 To be eligible to receive a grant under this subtitle a State, acting through
 the State educational agency, shall prepare and submit to the Commission,
 an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information
 as the Commission shall reasonably require, including a description of the
 manner in which--
 (1) local applications will be ranked by the State according to the criteria
 described in section 114, and in a manner that ensures the equitable
 treatment of local applications submitted by both local educational agencies
 and community-based organizations;
 (2) service programs within the State will be coordinated with each other
 and with other Federally assisted education programs, training programs,
 social service programs, and other appropriate programs that serve youth;
 (3) cooperative efforts among local educational agencies, local government
 agencies, community-based agencies, businesses, and State agencies to
 develop and provide service opportunities, including those that involve
 the participation of urban, suburban, and rural youth working together,
 will be encouraged;
 (4) economically and educationally disadvantaged youths, including individuals
 with disabilities, youth with limited basic skills or learning disabilities,
 youth in foster care who are becoming too old for foster care, youth of
 limited English proficiency, homeless youth and youth with disabilities,
 are assured of service opportunities;
 (5) service programs that receive assistance under this subtitle will
 be evaluated;
 (6) programs that receive assistance under this subtitle will serve urban
 and rural areas and any tribal areas that exist within such State;
 (7) training and technical assistance will be provided to local grantees
 by qualified and experienced individuals employed by the State or through
 grant or contract with experienced content specialist and youth service
 resource organizations;
 (8) non-Federal assistance will be used to expand service opportunities
 for students and out-of-school youth;
 (9) information and outreach services will be disseminated and utilized
 to ensure the involvement of a broad range of organizations, particularly
 community-based organizations;
 (10) the State will keep such records and provide such information to the
 Secretary as may be required for fiscal audits and program evaluation;
 (11) the State will give special consideration to providing assistance to
 projects that will provide academic credit to participants; and
 (12) the State will assure compliance with the specific requirements of
 this subtitle.
SEC. 114. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- A partnership that desires to receive financial assistance
 under this subtitle shall prepare and submit to the State Educational Agency
 a proposal that meets the requirements of this section. Such proposal shall
 be submitted at such time, in such manner, and containing such information
 as the State Educational Agency may reasonably require.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS OF PROPOSAL- A proposal submitted under subsection (a)
 shall--
 (1) contain a written agreement, between the members of the local partnership,
 stating that the program was jointly developed by the parties and that the
 program will be jointly executed by the parties;
 (2) establish and specify the membership and role of an advisory committee
 that shall consist of representatives of community-based agencies including
 community action agencies, service recipients, youth-serving agencies,
 youth, parents, teachers, administrators, agencies that serve older adults,
 school board members, labor, and business;
 (3) describe the goals of the program which shall include goals that are
 quantifiable, measurable, and demonstrate any benefits that flow from the
 program to the participants and the community;
 (4) describe service opportunities to be provided under the program that
 shall include evidence that participants will make a sustained commitment
 to the service project;
 (5) describe the manner in which the participants in the program will be
 recruited, including any special efforts that will be utilized to recruit
 out-of-school youth with the assistance of community-based agencies;
 (6) describe the manner in which participants in the program were or will
 be involved in the design and operation of the program;
 (7) describe the qualifications, and responsibilities of the coordinator
 of the program assisted under this subtitle;
 (8) describe preservice and inservice training for supervisors, teachers,
 and participants in the program;
 (9) describe the manner in which exemplary service will be recognized;
 (10) describe any potential resources that will permit continuation of
 the program, if needed, after the assistance received under this subtitle
 has ended;
 (11) disclose whether the program plans include preventing and treating
 school-age drug and alcohol abuse and dependency; and
 (12) contain assurances that, prior to the placement of a participant,
 the program will consult with any local labor organization representing
 employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar work as that
 proposed to be carried out by such program.
 (c) SCHOOL-BASED AND COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICE LEARNING PROGRAM- If an
 applicant under this section intends to operate a program described in
 section 111(a)(2) or 111(a)(3) such applicant, in addition to providing
 the information described in subsection (b), shall provide additional
 information that shall include--
 (1) an assurance that the applicant will develop an age-appropriate learning
 component for participants in the program that shall include a chance for
 participants to reflect on service experiences and expected learning outcomes;
 (2) a disclosure of whether or not the participants will receive academic
 credit for participation in the program;
 (3) the target levels of participants in the program and the target levels
 for the hours of service that such participants will provide individually
 and as a group;
 (4) the proportion of expected participants in the program who are
 educationally or economically disadvantaged, including participants with
 disabilities;
 (5) the ages or grade levels of expected participants in the program;
 (6) other relevant demographic information concerning such expected
 participants; and
 (7) assurances that participants in the program will be provided with
 information concerning VISTA, the Peace Corps (as established by the Peace
 Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.)), chapter 30 of title 38, United States
 Code, chapter 106 of title 10, United States Code, full-time Youth Service
 Corps and National Service programs receiving assistance under this title,
 and other service options and their benefits (such as student loan deferment
 and forgiveness) as appropriate.
 (d) PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM- If an applicant under this section intends to operate
 an adult role partnership program, under section 111(a)(4) such applicant,
 in addition to the information required to be included in the application
 under subsection (b), shall describe the students who are to be assisted
 through such program, including the ages and grade levels of such students.
SEC. 115. PRIORITY; PRIVATE SCHOOL PARTICIPATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In providing assistance under this subtitle, the State
 educational agency, or the Commission if section 111(b) applies, shall give
 priority to applications that describe programs that--
 (1) involve participants in the design and operation of the program;
 (2) are in the greatest need of assistance, such as programs targeting
 low-income areas;
 (3) involve students from both public and private elementary and secondary
 schools or individuals of different ages, races, sexes, ethnic groups,
 disabilities and economic backgrounds serving together;
 (4) are integrated into the academic program; or
 (5) involve a focus on substance abuse prevention or school drop-out
 prevention.
 (b) ADULT VOLUNTEER AND PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM- In the case of an adult
 volunteer and partnership program (as described in section 111(a)(4)) the
 State educational agency, or the Commission, if section 111(b) applies,
 shall give priority to applications that contain a description of programs--
 (1) that involve older Americans or parents as adult volunteers;
 (2) that involve a partnership between an educational institution and a
 private business in the community;
 (3) that include a focus on substance abuse prevention, school drop-out
 prevention, or nutrition; or
 (4) that will improve basic skills and reduce illiteracy.
 (c) PARTICIPATION OF CHILDREN AND TEACHERS FROM PRIVATE SCHOOLS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- To the extent consistent with the number of children in the
 State or in the school district of the local educational agency involved
 who are enrolled in private nonprofit elementary and secondary schools,
 such State or agency shall (after consultation with appropriate private
 school representatives) make provision--
 (A) for the inclusion of services and arrangements for the benefit of such
 children so as to assure the equitable participation of such children in
 the programs or projects implemented to carry out the purposes and provide
 the benefits described in this subtitle; and
 (B) for the training of the teachers of such children so as to assure
 the equitable participation of such teachers in the programs or projects
 implemented to carry out the purposes and provide the benefits described
 in this subtitle.
 (2) WAIVER- If a State or local educational agency or institution of higher
 education is prohibited by law from providing for the participation of
 children or teachers from private nonprofit schools as required by paragraph
 (1), or if the Secretary determines that a State or local educational agency
 substantially fails or is unwilling to provide for such participation on
 an equitable basis, the Secretary shall waive such requirements and shall
 arrange for the provision of services to such children and teachers. Such
 waivers shall be subject to consultation, withholding, notice, and judicial
 review requirements in accordance with section 1017 of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965.
SEC. 116. FEDERAL AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
 (a) FEDERAL SHARE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Federal share of a grant or contract for a project
 under this subtitle may not exceed--
 (A) 90 percent of the total cost of a project for the first year for which
 the project receives assistance under this subtitle;
 (B) 80 percent of the total cost of a project for the second year for which
 the project receives assistance under this subtitle; and
 (C) 70 percent of the total cost of a project for the third year for which
 the project receives assistance under this subtitle.
 (2) CALCULATION- The State and local share of the costs of a project may
 be in cash or in kind fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment,
 or services.
 (b) WAIVER- The Secretary may waive the requirements of subsection (a)
 with respect to any project in any fiscal year if the Secretary determines
 that such a waiver would be equitable due to a lack of available financial
 resources at the local level.
SEC. 117. USES OF FUNDS; LIMITATIONS.
 (a) STATE USES OF FUNDS- The State educational agency may reserve, from
 funds made available to such agency under this subtitle--
 (1) not more than 5 percent of such funds for administrative costs for any
 fiscal year;
 (2) not more than 10 percent of such funds to build capacity through training,
 technical assistance, curriculum development, and coordination activities,
 described in section 111(a)(1);
 (3) not less than 60 percent of such funds to carry out school-based service
 learning programs described in section 111(a)(2);
 (4) not less than 15 percent of such funds to carry out community-based
 service programs described in section 111(a)(3); and
 (5) not more than 10 percent of such funds to carry out adult volunteer
 and partnership programs described in section 111(a)(4).
 (b) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES FOR LOCAL PROJECTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Local projects may use funds made available under
 this subtitle for the supervision of participating students, program
 administration, training, reasonable transportation costs, insurance,
 and for other reasonable expenses.
 (2) LIMITATION- Funds made available under this subtitle may not be used to
 pay any stipend, allowance, or other financial support to any participant,
 except reimbursement for transportation, meals, and other reasonable
 out-of-pocket expenses directly related to participation in a program
 assisted under this subtitle.
PART II--HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATIVE PROJECTS FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE
SEC. 118. HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATIVE PROJECTS FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE.
 (a) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this part to support innovative projects
 to encourage students to participate in community service activities while
 such students are attending institutions of higher education.
 (b) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Commission, in consultation with the Secretary
 of Education, is authorized to make grants to, and enter into contracts
 with, institutions of higher education (including a combination of such
 institutions) and other public agencies and nonprofit organizations working
 in partnership with institutions of higher education--
 (1) to enable the institution to create or expand community service activities
 for students attending that institution;
 (2) to encourage student-initiated and student-designed community service
 projects;
 (3) to facilitate the integration of community service into academic
 curricula, so that students can obtain credit for their community service
 activities;
 (4) to encourage students to participate in community service activities
 that will engender a sense of social responsibility and commitment to
 the community;
 (5) to encourage students to assist in the teaching of individuals with
 limited basic skills or an inability to read and write; and
 (6) to provide for the training of teachers, prospective teachers, related
 education personnel, and community leaders in the skills necessary to
 develop, supervise, and organize community service activities, taking
 into consideration the particular needs of a community and the ability
 of the grantee to actively involve a major part of the community in, and
 substantially benefit the community by, the proposed community service
 activities.
 (c) FEDERAL SHARE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Federal share of each grant awarded under this section
 shall not exceed 50 percent of the cost of the community service activities
 carried out with each such grant.
 (2) NON-FEDERAL SOURCES- That portion of the costs of programs that receive
 assistance under this subtitle that are to be paid from sources other than
 Federal funds may be paid in cash or in kind (fairly evaluated).
 (d) APPLICATION FOR GRANT- To receive a grant under this subtitle, an
 applicant shall prepare and submit to the Commission, an application at
 such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commission
 may reasonably require, including--
 (1) a description of the proposed program to be established with assistance
 provided under the grant;
 (2) a description of the human, educational, environmental or public safety
 service that participants will perform and the community need that will be
 addressed under such program;
 (3) a description of whether or not students will receive academic credit
 for community service activities under the program;
 (4) a description of the procedure for training supervisors and participants
 and for supervising and organizing participants in such proposed program;
 (5) a description of the procedures to ensure that the proposed program
 provides participants with an opportunity to reflect on their service
 experiences;
 (6) a description of the budget for the program; and
 (7) assurances that, prior to the placement of a participant in the program,
 the applicant will consult with any local labor organization representing
 employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar work as that
 proposed to be carried out by such project.
Subtitle C--American Conservation and Youth Corps
SEC. 120. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `American Conservation and Youth Service
 Corps Act of 1990'.
SEC. 121. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 The Commission may make grants under section 102 to States or local
 applicants, to the Secretary of Agriculture, to the Secretary of the Interior,
 or to the Director of ACTION for the creation or expansion of full-time or
 summer youth corps programs.
SEC. 122. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
 (a) COMPETITIVE GRANT- The Commission shall award grants under this subtitle
 on a competitive basis to States or Indian tribes that have submitted
 applications under section 123.
 (b) DIRECT GRANTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In the case of a State that does not apply for a grant
 under this subtitle or have an application approved under section 123,
 the Commission may award grants directly to public or private nonprofit
 agencies with experience in youth programs within such State.
 (2) Evaluation-
 (A) APPLICATION OF CRITERIA- The Commission shall apply the criteria described
 in section 123 in determining whether to award a grant to a local applicant
 under this subsection.
 (B) EQUITABLE ALLOCATION- If more than one local applicant within a State
 applies for funds, the Commission shall allocate funds among such applicants
 in such manner as the Commission considers equitable.
 (3) INDIAN TRIBES- An Indian tribe shall be treated the same as a State
 for purposes of making grants under this subtitle.
 (4) GRANT TO FEDERAL AGENCY- If a State has failed to establish a youth
 corps program and no local youth corps programs exist within such State,
 the Commission may make a grant to a Federal agency to directly administer
 a youth corps program.
 (c) LIMITATION-
 (1) CAPITAL EQUIPMENT- Not to exceed 10 percent of the amount of assistance
 made available to a program agency under this subtitle shall be used for
 the purchase of major capital equipment.
 (2) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES-
 (A) BY PROGRAM AGENCY- Not to exceed 5 percent of the amount of assistance
 made available to a program agency under this subtitle shall be used for
 administrative expenses.
 (B) BY STATE- Not to exceed 5 percent of the amount of assistance made
 available to a State under this subtitle shall be used for administrative
 expenses.
 (d) RESERVATION-
 (1) FEDERAL DISASTER RELIEF- The Commission shall reserve not to exceed 5
 percent of the amounts made available in each fiscal year to make grants
 under this subtitle for Federal disaster relief programs.
 (2) INDIAN TRIBES- The Commission shall reserve not to exceed 1 percent of
 the amounts made available in each fiscal year to make grants under this
 subtitle to Indian tribes.
 (e) EQUITABLE FUNDING OF CONSERVATION AND SERVICE PROGRAMS- The Commission
 shall award an equal number of grants to conservation corps programs and
 youth corps programs.
SEC. 123. STATE APPLICATION.
 (a) SUBMISSION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this subtitle,
 a State or Indian tribe (or a local applicant if section 122(b) applies)
 shall prepare and submit to the Commission, an application at such time,
 in such manner, and containing such information as the Commission may
 reasonably require, including the information required under subsection (b).
 (b) GENERAL CONTENT- An application submitted under subsection (a) shall
 describe--
 (1) any youth corps program proposed to be conducted directly by such
 applicant with assistance provided under this subtitle; and
 (2) any grant program proposed to be conducted by such State with assistance
 provided under this subtitle for the benefit of entities within such State.
 (c) SPECIFIC CONTENT- To receive a grant under this subtitle to directly
 conduct a youth corps program, each applicant shall include in the application
 submitted under subsection (a)--
 (1) a comprehensive description of the objectives and performance goals for
 the program to be conducted, a plan for managing and funding the program,
 and a description of the types of projects to be carried out, including a
 description of the types and duration of training and work experience to
 be provided by such program;
 (2) a plan for the certification of the training skills acquired by
 participants and the awarding of academic credit to participants for
 competencies developed through training programs or work experience obtained
 under this subtitle;
 (3) an age-appropriate learning component for participants that includes
 procedures that permit participants to reflect on service experiences;
 (4) an estimate of the number of participants and crew leaders necessary
 for the proposed program, the length of time that the services of such
 participants and crew leaders will be required, the support services
 that will be required for such participants and crew leaders, and a plan
 for recruiting such participants, including educationally and economically
 disadvantaged youth, youth with limited basic skills or learning disabilities,
 homeless youth, youth with disabilities, youth who are in foster care who are
 becoming too old for foster care, and youth of limited English proficiency;
 (5) a list of requirements to be imposed on the sponsoring organizations
 of participants in the program, including a requirement that a sponsoring
 organization that invests in a program that receives assistance under this
 subtitle, by making a cash contribution or by providing free training to
 participants, shall be given preference over a sponsoring organization that
 does not make such an investment;
 (6) a description of the manner of appointment and training of sufficient
 supervisory staff (including participants who have displayed exceptional
 leadership qualities), who shall provide for other central elements of a
 youth corps, such as crew structure and a youth development component;
 (7) a description of a plan to ensure the on-site presence of knowledgeable
 and competent supervisory personnel at program facilities;
 (8) a description of the facilities, quarters and board (in the case of
 residential facilities), limited and emergency medical care, transportation
 from administrative facilities to work sites, accommodations for individuals
 with disabilities, and other appropriate services, supplies, and equipment
 that will be provided by such applicant;
 (9) a description of the basic standards of work requirements, health,
 nutrition, sanitation, and safety, and the manner that such standards shall
 be enforced;
 (10) a description of the plan to assign participants to facilities as near
 to the homes of such participants as is reasonable and practicable;
 (11) an assurance that, prior to the placement of a participant under this
 subtitle, the program agency will consult with any local labor organization
 representing employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar
 work as that proposed to be carried out by such program;
 (12) a description of formal social counseling arrangements to be made
 available to the participant;
 (13) a plan for ensuring that individuals do not drop out of school for
 the purpose of participating in a youth corps program; and
 (14) such other information as the Commission shall require.
 (d) GRANT PROGRAM- To be eligible to receive a grant under this subtitle, a
 State shall establish and implement a program to make grants to applicants
 within the State pursuant to subsection (b)(2) and, in the application
 submitted under subsection (a), such State shall describe the manner
 in which--
 (1) local applicants will be evaluated;
 (2) service programs within the State will be coordinated;
 (3) economically and educationally disadvantaged youth, including youth
 with disabilities, youth with limited basic skills or learning disabilities,
 youth with limited English proficiency, homeless youth, and youth in foster
 care who are becoming too old for foster care, will be recruited;
 (4) programs that receive assistance under this subtitle will be evaluated;
 (5) the State will encourage cooperation among programs that receive
 assistance under this subtitle and the appropriate State job training
 coordinating council established under the Job Training and Partnership Act
 (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.);
 (6) such State will certify the training skills acquired by each participant
 and the credit provided to each participant for competencies developed
 through training programs or work experience obtained under programs that
 receive assistance under this subtitle; and
 (7) prior to the placement of a participant under this subtitle, the State
 will ensure that program agencies consult with each local labor organization
 representing employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar
 work as the work that is proposed to be carried out by such program.
SEC. 124. FOCUS OF PROGRAMS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Programs that receive assistance under this subtitle may
 carry out activities that--
 (1) in the case of conservation corps programs, focus on--
 (A) conservation, rehabilitation, and the improvement of wildlife habitat,
 rangelands, parks, and recreational areas;
 (B) urban and rural revitalization, historical and cultural site preservation,
 and reforestation of both urban and rural areas;
 (C) fish culture, wildlife habitat maintenance and improvement, and other
 fishery assistance;
 (D) road and trail maintenance and improvement;
 (E) erosion, flood, drought, and storm damage assistance and controls;
 (F) stream, lake, waterfront harbor, and port improvement;
 (G) wetlands protection and pollution control;
 (H) insect, disease, rodent, and fire prevention and control;
 (I) the improvement of abandoned railroad beds and rights-of-way;
 (J) energy conservation projects, renewable resource enhancement, and
 recovery of biomass;
 (K) reclamation and improvement of strip-mined land;
 (L) forestry, nursery, and cultural operations; and
 (M) making public facilities accessible to individuals with disabilities.
 (2) in the case of human services corps programs, include participant
 service in--
 (A) State, local, and regional governmental agencies;
 (B) nursing homes, hospices, senior centers, hospitals, local libraries,
 parks, recreational facilities, child and adult day care centers, programs
 serving individuals with disabilities, and schools;
 (C) law enforcement agencies, and penal and probation systems;
 (D) private nonprofit organizations that primarily focus on social service
 such as community action agencies;
 (E) activities that focus on the rehabilitation or improvement of public
 facilities, neighborhood improvements, literacy training that benefits
 educationally disadvantaged individuals, weatherization of and basic repairs
 to low-income housing including housing occupied by older adults, energy
 conservation (including solar energy techniques), removal of architectural
 barriers to access by individuals with disabilities to public facilities,
 activities that focus on drug and alcohol abuse education, prevention
 and treatment, and conservation, maintenance, or restoration of natural
 resources on publicly held lands; and
 (F) any other nonpartisan civic activities and services that the Commission
 determines to be of a substantial social benefit in meeting unmet human,
 educational, or environmental needs (particularly needs related to poverty)
 or in the community where volunteer service is to be performed; or
 (3) encompass the focuses and services described in both paragraphs (1)
 and (2).
 (b) INELIGIBLE SERVICE CATEGORIES- To be eligible to receive assistance
 under this subtitle, the activities conducted through programs referred to
 in subsection (a) shall not be conducted by any--
 (1) business organized for profit;
 (2) labor union;
 (3) partisan political organization;
 (4) organization engaged in religious activities, unless such activities do
 not involve the use of funds provided under this title by program participants
 and program staff to give religious instruction, conduct worship services,
 or engage in any form of proselytization; or
 (5) domestic or personal service company or organization.
 (c) LIMITATION ON SERVICE- No participant shall perform services in any
 project for more than a 6-month period. No participant shall remain enrolled
 in projects assisted under this subtitle for more than 24 months.
SEC. 125. RELATED PROGRAMS.
 An activity administered under the authority of the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services, that is operated for the same purpose as a program eligible to
 be carried out under this subtitle, is encouraged to use services available
 under this subtitle.
SEC. 126. PUBLIC LANDS OR INDIAN LANDS.
 (a) LIMITATION- To be eligible to receive assistance through a grant provided
 under this subtitle, a program shall carry out activities on public lands
 or Indian lands, or result in a public benefit.
 (b) REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS- In reviewing applications submitted under section
 123 that propose programs or projects to be carried out on public lands or
 Indian lands, the Commission shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior.
 (c) CONSISTENCY- A program carried out with assistance provided under this
 subtitle for conservation, rehabilitation, or improvement of any public
 lands or Indian lands shall be consistent with--
 (1) the provisions of law and policies relating to the management and
 administration of such lands, and all other applicable provisions of law; and
 (2) all management, operational, and other plans and documents that govern
 the administration of such lands.
 (d) PARTICIPATION BY OTHER CONSERVATION PROGRAMS- Any land or water
 conservation program (or any related program) administered in any State
 under the authority of any Federal program is encouraged to use services
 available under this part to carry out its program.
SEC. 127. TRAINING AND EDUCATION SERVICES.
 (a) ASSESSMENT OF SKILLS- Each program agency shall assess the educational
 level of participants at the time of their entrance into the program, using
 any available records or simplified assessment means or methodology and
 shall, where appropriate, refer such participants for testing for specific
 learning disabilities.
 (b) ENHANCEMENT OF SKILLS- Each program agency shall, through the programs
 and activities administered under this subtitle, enhance the educational
 skills of participants.
 (c) PROVISION OF PRE-SERVICE AND IN-SERVICE TRAINING AND EDUCATION-
 (1) REQUIREMENT- Each program agency shall use not less than 10 percent of the
 assistance made available to such agency under this subtitle in each fiscal
 year to provide pre-service and in-service training and educational materials
 and services for participants in such a program. Program participants shall
 be provided with information concerning the benefits to the community that
 result from the activities undertaken by such participants.
 (2) AGREEMENTS FOR ACADEMIC STUDY- A program agency may enter into
 arrangements with academic institutions or education providers, including--
 (A) local education agencies;
 (B) community colleges;
 (C) 4-year colleges;
 (D) area vocational-technical schools; and
 (E) community based organizations;
to evaluate the basic skills of participants and to make academic study
available to participants to enable such participants to upgrade literacy
skills, to obtain high school diplomas or the equivalent of such diplomas,
to obtain college degrees, or to enhance employable skills.
 (3) COUNSELING- Career and educational guidance and counseling shall
 be provided to a participant during a period of in-service training as
 described in this subsection. Each graduating participant shall be provided
 with counseling with respect to additional study, job skills training or
 employment and shall be provided job placement assistance where appropriate.
 (4) PRIORITY FOR PARTICIPANTS WITHOUT HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMAS- A program
 agency shall give priority to participants who have not obtained a high
 school diploma or the equivalent of such diploma, in providing services
 under this subsection.
 (d) STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES-
 (1) CONSISTENCY WITH STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS- Appropriate State and
 local officials shall certify that standards and procedures with respect
 to the awarding of academic credit and the certification of educational
 attainment in programs conducted under subsection (c) are consistent with
 the requirements of applicable State and local law and regulations.
 (2) ACADEMIC STANDARDS- The standards and procedures described in paragraph
 (1) shall provide that an individual serving in a program that receives
 assistance under this subtitle--
 (A) who is not a high school graduate, participate in an educational
 curriculum so that such individual can earn a high school diploma or the
 equivalent of such diploma; and
 (B) may arrange to receive academic credit in recognition of the education
 and skills obtained from service satisfactorily completed.
SEC. 128. AMOUNT OF AWARD; MATCHING REQUIREMENT.
 (a) AMOUNT OF AWARD- In determining the amount of a grant to be awarded to
 an applicant under this subtitle, the Commission shall consider--
 (1) the number of participants to be served;
 (2) the youth unemployment rate in the State; and
 (3) the type of project or service proposed to be carried out with the
 assistance provided under this subtitle.
 (b) MATCHING REQUIREMENT-
 (1) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of the cost of activities for which a
 grant is made to a State or local applicant under this subtitle shall not
 exceed 75 percent of the total cost of such activities.
 (2) DEMONSTRATION OF EFFECTIVENESS- In addition to the matching requirement
 in paragraph (1), the State or local applicant shall demonstrate to the
 satisfaction of the Commission that the effectiveness of the project will
 be enhanced by the use of Federal funds.
SEC. 129. PREFERENCE FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In the consideration of applications submitted under section
 123, the Commission shall give preference to programs that--
 (1) will provide long-term benefits to the public;
 (2) will instill a work ethic and a sense of public service in the
 participants;
 (3) will be labor intensive, and involve youth operating in crews;
 (4) can be planned and initiated promptly; and
 (5) will enhance skills development and educational level and opportunities
 for the participants.
 (b) SPECIAL RULE- In the consideration of applications under this subtitle the
 Commission shall ensure the equitable treatment of both urban and rural areas.
SEC. 130. AGE AND CITIZENSHIP CRITERIA FOR ENROLLMENT.
 (a) AGE AND CITIZENSHIP- Enrollment in programs that receive assistance
 under this subtitle shall be limited to individuals who, at the time of
 enrollment, are--
 (1) not less than 16 years nor more than 25 years of age, except that summer
 programs may include individuals not less than 15 years nor more than 21
 years of age at the time of the enrollment of such individuals; and
 (2) citizens or nationals of the United States or lawful permanent resident
 aliens of the United States.
 (b) PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED YOUTH- Programs that receive assistance
 under this subtitle shall ensure that educationally and economically
 disadvantaged youth, including youth in foster care who are becoming too
 old for foster care, youth with disabilities, youth with limited English
 proficiency, youth with limited basic skills or learning disabilities and
 homeless youth, are offered opportunities to enroll.
 (c) SPECIAL CORPS MEMBERS- Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), program
 agencies may enroll a limited number of special corps members over age 25
 so that the corps may draw on their special skills to fulfill the purposes
 of this Act. Programs are encouraged to consider senior citizens as special
 corps members.
 (d) JOINT PROJECTS WITH SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATIONS- Program agencies
 shall use not more than 2 percent of amounts received under this subtitle to
 conduct joint projects with senior citizens organizations to enable senior
 citizens to serve as mentors for youth participants.
 (e) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit
 any program agency from limiting enrollment to any age subgroup within the
 range specified in subsection (a)(1).
SEC. 131. USE OF VOLUNTEERS.
 Program agencies may use volunteer services for purposes of assisting
 projects carried out under this subtitle and may expend funds made available
 for those purposes to the agency, including funds made available under this
 subtitle, to provide for services or costs incidental to the utilization of
 such volunteers, including transportation, supplies, lodging, recruiting,
 training, and supervision. The use of volunteer services under this section
 shall be subject to the condition that such use does not result in the
 displacement of any participant.
SEC. 132. POST-SERVICE BENEFITS.
 The program agency shall provide post-service education and training benefits
 (such as scholarships and grants) for each participant in an amount that is
 not in excess of $100 per week, or in excess of $5,000 per year, whichever
 is less.
SEC. 133. LIVING ALLOWANCE.
 (a) FULL-TIME SERVICE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- From assistance provided under this subtitle, each participant
 in a full-time youth corps program that receives assistance under this
 subtitle shall receive a living allowance of not more than an amount equal to
 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of two (as defined in section
 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))).
 (2) NON-FEDERAL SOURCES- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a program agency
 may provide participants with additional amounts that are made available
 from non-Federal sources.
 (b) REDUCTION IN EXISTING PROGRAM BENEFITS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a
 program in existence on the date of enactment of this Act to decrease
 any stipends, salaries, or living allowances provided to participants
 under such program so long as the amount of any such stipends, salaries,
 or living allowances that is in excess of the levels provided for in this
 section are paid from non-Federal sources.
 (2) FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT OF 1938- For purposes of the Fair Labor Standards
 Act of 1938, residential youth corps programs under this subtitle will be
 considered an organized camp.
 (c) HEALTH INSURANCE- In addition to the living allowance provided under
 subsection (a), program agencies are encouraged to provide health insurance
 to each participant in a full-time youth corps program who does not otherwise
 have access to health insurance.
 (d) FACILITIES, SERVICES, AND SUPPLIES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The program agency may deduct, from amounts provided under
 subsections (a) and (c) to a participant, a reasonable portion of the costs
 of the rates for any room and board that is provided for such participant
 at a residential facility. Such deducted funds shall be deposited into
 rollover accounts that shall be used solely to defray the costs of room
 and board for participants.
 (2) EVALUATION- The program agency shall establish the amount of the
 deductions and rates under paragraph (1) after evaluating the costs of
 providing such room and board to the participant.
 (3) DUTIES OF PROGRAM AGENCY- A program agency may provide facilities,
 quarters, and board and shall provide limited and emergency medical care,
 transportation from administrative facilities to work sites, accommodations
 for individuals with disabilities, and other appropriate services, supplies,
 and equipment to each participant.
 (4) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The Commission may provide services, facilities, supplies,
 and equipment, including any surplus food and equipment available from
 other Federal programs, to any program agency carrying out projects under
 this subtitle.
 (B) SECRETARY OF DEFENSE- Whenever possible, the Commission shall make
 arrangements with the Secretary of Defense to have logistical support provided
 by a military installation near the work site, including the provision of
 temporary tent centers where needed, and other supplies and equipment.
 (5) HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS- The Commission and program agencies shall
 establish standards and enforcement procedures concerning the health and
 safety of participants for all projects, consistent with Federal, State,
 and local health and safety standards.
SEC. 134. JOINT PROGRAMS.
 (a) DEVELOPMENT- The Commission may develop, in cooperation with the heads of
 other Federal agencies, regulations designed to permit, where appropriate,
 joint programs in which activities supported with assistance made available
 under this subtitle are coordinated with activities supported with assistance
 made available under programs administered by the heads of such agencies
 (including the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)).
 (b) STANDARDS- Regulations promulgated under subsection (a) shall establish
 standards for the approval of joint programs that meet both the purposes
 of this title and the purposes of such statutes under which assistance is
 made available to support such projects.
 (c) OPERATION OF MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS- Program agencies may enter into
 contracts and other appropriate arrangements with local government agencies
 and nonprofit organizations for the operation or management of any projects
 or facilities under the program.
 (d) COORDINATION- The Commission and program agencies carrying out programs
 under this subtitle shall coordinate the programs with related Federal,
 State, local, and private activities.
SEC. 135. FEDERAL AND STATE EMPLOYEE STATUS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Participants and crew leaders shall be responsible to,
 or be the responsibility of, the program agency administering the program
 on which such participants, crew leaders, and volunteers work.
 (b) NON-FEDERAL EMPLOYEES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a participant
 or crew leader in a program that receives assistance under this subtitle
 shall not be considered a Federal employee and shall not be subject to the
 provisions of law relating to Federal employment.
 (2) WORK-RELATED INJURY- For purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of title
 5, United States Code, relating to the compensation of Federal employees
 for work injuries, a participant or crew leader serving in a program that
 receives assistance under this subtitle shall be considered an employee
 of the United States within the meaning of the term `employee' as defined
 in section 8101 of title 5, United States Code, and the provision of that
 subchapter shall apply, except--
 (A) the term `performance of duty', as used in such subchapter, shall not
 include an act of a participant or crew leader while absent from the assigned
 post of duty of such participant or crew leader, except while participating
 in an activity authorized by or under the direction and supervision of a
 program agency (including an activity while on pass or during travel to or
 from such post of duty); and
 (B) compensation for disability shall not begin to accrue until the day
 following the date that the employment of the injured participant or crew
 leader is terminated.
 (3) TORT CLAIMS PROCEDURE- For purposes of chapter 171 of title 28,
 United States Code, relating to tort claims procedure, a participant or
 crew leaders assigned to a youth corps program for which a grant has been
 made to the Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of the Interior, or the
 Director of ACTION, shall be considered an employee of the United States
 within the meaning of the term `employee of the government' as defined in
 section 2671 of such title.
 (4) ALLOWANCE FOR QUARTERS- For purposes of section 5911 of title 5, United
 States Code, relating to allowances for quarters, a participant or crew
 leader shall be considered an employee of the United States within the
 meaning of the term `employee' as defined in paragraph (3) of subsection
 (a) of such section.
 (c) AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATION- Contract authority under this subtitle
 shall be subject to the availability of appropriations. Assistance made
 available under this subtitle shall only be used for activities that are
 in addition to those which would otherwise be carried out in the area in
 the absence of such funds.
SEC. 136. REGULATIONS AND ASSISTANCE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Before the end of the 120-day period beginning on the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall promulgate regulations
 necessary to implement the program established by this subtitle.
 (b) NOTICE AND COMMENT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Prior to the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall establish procedures to
 provide program agencies and other interested parties (including the general
 public) with adequate notice and an opportunity to comment on and participate
 in the formulation of regulations promulgated under subsection (a).
 (2) REPORTING- The regulations promulgated under subsection (a) shall
 include provisions to assure uniform reporting on--
 (A) the activities and accomplishments of Youth Corps programs;
 (B) the demographic characteristics of participants in the Youth Corps; and
 (C) such other information as may be necessary to prepare the annual report
 required by section 172.
Subtitle D--National and Community Service
SEC. 140. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `National and Community Service Act'.
SEC. 141. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 The Commission may make grants under section 102 to States for the creation
 of full- and part-time national and community service programs.
SEC. 142. GRANTS.
 (a) CRITERIA FOR RECEIVING APPLICATIONS- In determining whether to award
 a grant to a State under section 141, the Commission shall consider--
 (1) the ability of the proposed program of such State to serve as an
 effective model for a large-scale national service program;
 (2) the quality of the application of such State, including the plan of
 such State for training, recruitment, placement, and data collection;
 (3) the extent that the proposed program builds on existing programs; and
 (4) the expediency with which the State proposes to make the program
 operational.
 (b) DIVERSITY- The Commission shall ensure that programs receiving assistance
 under this subtitle are geographically diverse and include programs in both
 urban and rural States.
 (c) TRAINING AND SKILLS- The Commission shall ensure that some of the
 programs funded under this subtitle enroll individuals who have completed
 undergraduate education or specialized post-secondary training and whose
 training and skills enable them to provide needed services in the State.
 (d) COMPOSITION OF PROGRAMS- The Commission shall ensure that not less
 than 25 percent of the programs that receive assistance under this subtitle
 include full-time, part-time and special senior service participants.
 (e) DESIGN OF PROGRAMS- States shall design programs, consistent with the
 provisions of this Act, that meet the unique needs of the State, which may
 include programs that limit the type of service participants may perform
 or limit the age of participants to a narrower age subgroup.
 (f) STATE APPLICATION FOR GRANT- To receive a grant under section 141, a
 State shall prepare and submit, to the Commission, an application at such
 time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commission
 may reasonably require, including--
 (1) a description of the State administrative plan for the implementation
 of a program with assistance provided under this subtitle, including such
 functions, if any, that will be carried out by public and private nonprofit
 organizations pursuant to a grant or contract;
 (2) a description of the manner in which an ethnically and economically
 diverse group of participants, including economically and educationally
 disadvantaged individuals, college-bound youth, individuals with disabilities,
 youth in foster care who are becoming too old for foster care, and employed
 individuals, shall be recruited and selected for participation in a program
 receiving assistance under this subtitle;
 (3) a description of the procedures for training supervisors and participants
 and for supervising and organizing participants in such program;
 (4) a description of the procedures to ensure that the program provides
 participants with an opportunity to reflect on their service experience;
 (5) a description of the geographical areas within such State in which the
 program would be operated to provide the optimum match between the need
 for services and the anticipated supply of participants;
 (6) a description of the plan for placing such participants in teams or
 making individual placements in such program;
 (7) assurances that, prior to such placement, the State will consult with any
 local labor organization representing employees in the area who are engaged in
 the same or similar work as that proposed to be carried out by such program;
 (8) assurances that, prior to such placement, such State will consult
 with employees at the proposed project site who are engaged in the same or
 similar work as that proposed to be carried out by such program;
 (9) a description of the anticipated number of full- and part-time
 participants and special senior service members in such program;
 (10) a plan for the recruitment and selection of sponsoring organizations
 that will receive participants under programs that receive assistance under
 this subtitle;
 (11) a description of the procedures for matching such participants with
 such sponsoring organizations;
 (12) a description of the procedures to be used to assure that sponsoring
 organizations that are not matched with participants shall be provided
 with information concerning the VISTA program and the programs established
 under title II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5001
 et seq.);
 (13) the State budget for the program;
 (14) a plan for evaluating the program and assurances that such State will
 fully cooperate with any evaluation undertaken by the Commission pursuant
 to section 178; and
 (15) any other information as the Commission may reasonably require.
 (g) NUMBER OF STATES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall ensure that not more than five States
 are authorized to operate full-time programs and not more than five States
 are authorized to operate part-time programs in fiscal year 1991 under
 this subtitle.
 (2) SINGLE PROGRAM- For purposes of paragraph (1), a State operating a
 single national service program with both full- and part-time options shall
 be counted as a State operating a full-time program and a State operating
 a part-time program.
 (3) COOPERATIVE ARRANGEMENT- For purposes of paragraph (1), a State
 operating a national service program involving a cooperative arrangement
 with a multi-State organization or with sites in more than one State shall
 be counted as a single State.
 (4) AUTHORIZED PROGRAMS IN FISCAL YEAR 1991- The Commission shall ensure
 that not more than eight States are authorized to operate programs in fiscal
 year 1991 under this subtitle.
 (h) INDIAN TRIBES- An Indian tribe shall be treated the same as a State
 for purposes of making grants under this subtitle.
SEC. 143. TYPES OF NATIONAL SERVICE.
 A participant in a program that receives assistance under this subtitle shall
 perform national service to meet unmet educational, human, environmental,
 and public safety needs, especially those needs relating to poverty.
SEC. 144. TERMS OF SERVICE.
 (a) LENGTH OF SERVICE-
 (1) PART-TIME- An individual performing part-time national service under this
 subtitle shall agree to perform community service for not less than 3 years.
 (2) FULL-TIME- An individual performing full-time national service under
 this subtitle shall agree to perform community service for not less than
 1 year nor more than 2 years, at the discretion of such individual.
 (3) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE- A special senior service participant performing
 national service under this subtitle shall serve for a period of time as
 determined by the Commission.
 (b) PARTIAL COMPLETION OF SERVICE- If the State releases a participant
 from completing a term of service in a program receiving assistance under
 this subtitle for compelling personal circumstances as demonstrated by such
 participant, the Commission may provide such participant with that portion
 of the financial assistance described in section 146 that corresponds to
 the quantity of the service obligation completed by such individual.
 (c) TERMS OF SERVICE-
 (1) PART-TIME- A participant performing part-time national service under
 this subtitle shall serve for--
 (A) 2 weekends each month and 2 weeks during the year; or
 (B) an average of 9 hours per week each year of service.
 (2) FULL-TIME- A participant performing full-time national service under this
 subtitle shall serve for not less than 40 hours per week each year of service.
 (3) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE- A special senior service participant performing
 national service under this subtitle shall serve either part- or full-time
 as permitted by the Commission.
SEC. 145. ELIGIBILITY.
 (a) PART-TIME-
 (1) REQUIREMENTS- An individual may serve in a part-time national service
 program under this subtitle if such individual--
 (A) is 17 years of age or older; and
 (B) is a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted for permanent
 residence.
 (2) PRIORITY- In selecting applicants for a part-time program, States shall
 give priority to applicants who are currently employed.
 (b) FULL-TIME- An individual may serve in a full-time national service
 program under this subtitle if such individual--
 (1) is 17 years of age or older;
 (2) has received a high school diploma or the equivalent of such diploma,
 or agrees to achieve a high school diploma or the equivalent of such diploma
 while participating in the program; and
 (3) is a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted for permanent
 residence.
 (c) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE- An individual may serve as a special senior
 service member under this subtitle if such individual--
 (1) is 60 years of age or older; and
 (2) meets the eligibility criteria for special senior service membership
 established by the Commission.
SEC. 146. POST-SERVICE BENEFITS.
 (a) PART-TIME-
 (1) FEDERAL SHARE- The Commission shall annually provide to each part-time
 participant a nontransferrable post-service benefit that is equal in value to
 $1,000 for each year of service that such participant provides to the program.
 (2) STATE SHARE-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The State shall annually provide to each part-time participant
 a nontransferrable post-service benefit that is equal in value to $1,000
 for each year of service that such participant provides to the program.
 (B) WAIVER- A State may apply for a waiver to reduce the amount of the
 post-service benefit to an amount that is equal to not less than the average
 annual tuition and required fees at 4-year public institutions of higher
 education within such State.
 (3) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent a
 State from using funds made available from non-Federal sources to increase
 the amount of post-service benefits provided under paragraph (1) to an
 amount in excess of that described in such paragraph.
 (b) FULL-TIME-
 (1) FEDERAL SHARE- The Commission shall annually provide to each full-time
 participant a nontransferrable post-service benefit that is equal in value to
 $2,500 for each year of service that such participant provides to the program.
 (2) STATE SHARE-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The State shall annually provide to each full-time participant
 a nontransferrable post-service benefit that is equal in value to $2,500
 for each year of service that such participant provides to the program.
 (B) WAIVER- A State may apply for a waiver to reduce the amount of the
 post-service benefit to an amount that is equal to not less than the average
 annual tuition, required fees, and room and board costs at 4-year public
 institutions of higher education within such State.
 (3) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent a
 State from using funds made available from non-Federal sources to increase
 the amount of post-service benefits provided under paragraph (1) to an
 amount in excess of that described in such paragraph.
 (c) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE PARTICIPANT- A special senior service participant
 shall be ineligible to receive post-service benefits under this section.
 (d) INDEXING- The Commission shall increase the value of post-service
 benefits provided under this section in each fiscal year based on the
 increase in the costs associated with attending a 4-year institution of
 higher education during that fiscal year. The Commission shall determine
 such increases in costs based on information made available by the Bureau
 of Labor Statistics and the National Center for Education Statistics.
 (e) POST-SERVICE BENEFIT-
 (1) PART-TIME- A post-service benefit provided under subsection (a) shall
 only be used for--
 (A) payment of a student loan from Federal or non-Federal sources;
 (B) downpayment or closing costs associated with purchasing a first home; or
 (C) tuition at an institution of higher education on a full-time basis,
 or to pay the expenses incurred in the full-time participation in an
 apprenticeship program approved by the appropriate State agency.
 (2) FULL-TIME- A post-service provided under subsection (b) shall only be
 used for--
 (A) payment of a student loan from Federal or non-Federal sources; or
 (B) tuition, room and board, books and fees, and other costs associated with
 attendance (pursuant to section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll)) at an institution of higher education on a full-time
 basis, or to pay the expenses incurred in the full-time participation in
 an apprenticeship program approved by the appropriate State agency.
SEC. 147. LIVING ALLOWANCE.
 (a) FULL-TIME SERVICE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- From assistance provided under this subtitle, each participant
 in a full-time national service program receiving assistance under this
 subtitle shall receive a living allowance of not more than an amount equal to
 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of two (as defined in section
 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))).
 (2) NON-FEDERAL SOURCES- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a program agency
 may provide participants with additional amounts that are made available
 from non-Federal sources.
 (b) REDUCTION IN EXISTING PROGRAM BENEFITS- Nothing in this section shall
 be construed to require a program in existence on the date of enactment of
 this Act to decrease any stipends, salaries, or living allowances provided
 to participants under such program.
 (c) HEALTH INSURANCE- In addition to the living allowance provided under
 subsection (a), grantees are encouraged to provide health insurance to each
 participant in a full-time national service program who does not otherwise
 have access to health insurance.
 (d) SPECIAL SENIOR SERVICE PARTICIPANT-
 (1) FULL-TIME- Each full-time special senior service participant shall
 receive a living allowance equal to the living allowance provided to
 full-time participants under subsection (a), and such other assistance as
 the Commission considers necessary and appropriate for a special senior
 service participant to carry out the service obligation of such participant.
 (2) PART-TIME- Each part-time special senior service participant shall
 receive a living allowance equal to a share of such allowance offered to a
 full-time special senior service participant under paragraph (1), that has
 been prorated according to the number of hours such part-time participant
 serves in the program, and such other assistance that the Commission considers
 necessary and appropriate for a special senior service participant to carry
 out the service obligation of such participant.
SEC. 148. TRAINING.
 (a) PROGRAM TRAINING-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Each participant shall receive 3 weeks of training provided
 by the Commission in cooperation with the State.
 (2) CONTENTS OF TRAINING SESSION- Each training session described in paragraph
 (1) shall--
 (A) orient each participant in the nature, philosophy, and purpose of
 the program;
 (B) build an ethic of community service; and
 (C) train each participant to effectively perform the assigned program task
 of such participant by providing--
 (i) general training in citizenship and civic and community service; and
 (ii) if feasible, specialized training for the type of service that each
 participant will perform.
 (b) ADDITIONAL TRAINING- Each State may provide additional training for
 participants as such State determines necessary.
 (c) AGENCY OR ORGANIZATION TRAINING- Each participant shall receive
 training from the sponsoring organization in skills relevant to the work
 to be conducted.
 (d) ACCOMMODATIONS FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES- In accordance with
 the nondiscrimination provisions of section 175, each training program
 shall provide reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities.
SEC. 149. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP.
 The Commission shall consider and develop opportunities for cooperation
 between public and private entities in the funding and implementation of
 a program receiving assistance under this subtitle, including cost-sharing
 arrangements with sponsoring organizations.
SEC. 150. IN-SERVICE EDUCATION BENEFITS.
 Each State that receives assistance under this subtitle shall provide to
 each participant enrolled in a full-time program in-service educational
 services and materials to enable such participant to obtain a high school
 diploma or the equivalent of such diploma.
Subtitle E--Innovative and Demonstration Programs and Projects
PART I--LIMITATION ON GRANTS
SEC. 155. LIMITATION ON GRANTS.
 The Commission shall make grants for not fewer than three programs authorized
 in this subtitle.
PART II--GOVERNORS' INNOVATIVE SERVICE PROGRAMS
SEC. 156. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 The Commission may make grants under section 102 to States or Indians tribes
 for the creation of innovative volunteer and community service programs.
SEC. 157. GRANTS.
 (a) CRITERIA FOR RECEIVING APPLICATIONS- In determining whether to award
 a grant under section 156, the Commission shall consider--
 (1) the ability of the proposed program to serve as an effective model;
 (2) the quality of the application submitted for the grant;
 (3) the extent to which the proposed program builds on existing programs; and
 (4) the degree to which the program responds to human, educational,
 environmental and public safety needs in an innovative manner.
 (b) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- Grants under this part may be used for--
 (1) enhancing volunteer and community service programs;
 (2) demonstration programs;
 (3) research concerning, assessment of, and evaluation of service programs;
 (4) coordination of service programs;
 (5) technical assistance;
 (6) training and staff development; and
 (7) collection and dissemination of information concerning service programs.
 (c) APPLICATION FOR GRANT- To receive a grant under this part, a State or
 Indian tribe shall prepare and submit to the Commission, an application at
 such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commission
 may reasonably require, including--
 (1) a description of the proposed program to be established with assistance
 provided under the grant;
 (2) a description of the human, educational, environmental or public safety
 service that participants will perform and the State or community need that
 will be addressed under such proposed program;
 (3) a description of the target population of participants and how they
 will be recruited;
 (4) a description of the procedure for training supervisors and participants
 and for supervising and organizing participants in such proposed program;
 (5) a description of the procedures to ensure that the proposed program
 provides participants with an opportunity to reflect on their service
 experiences;
 (6) a description of the budget for the program;
 (7) assurances that, prior to the placement of a participant in the program,
 the applicant will consult with any local labor organization representing
 employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar work as that
 proposed to be carried out by such project; and
 (8) assurances that, prior to the placement of a participant in a program,
 the applicant will consult with employees at the proposed program site who
 are engaged in the same or similar work as that proposed to be carried out
 by such program.
PART III--PEACE CORPS
SEC. 160. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Commission is authorized to make grants to the
 Director of the Peace Corps or the Director of ACTION to carry out training
 and educational benefits demonstration programs in accordance with this part.
 (b) CONTRACT AUTHORITY- The Director of the Peace Corps and the Director
 of ACTION are authorized, either directly or by way of grant, contract, or
 other arrangement, to carry out the provisions of this part. The authority to
 enter into contracts under this part shall be effective for any fiscal year
 only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts.
SEC. 161. ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION PROCEDURES.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY- Any individual who--
 (1) has completed at least 2 years of satisfactory study at an institution
 of higher education, is enrolled in an educational program of at least
 4 years at an institution of higher education for which such institution
 awards a bachelor's degree, and will complete such program within 2 years;
 (2) enters into an agreement with the Director of the Peace Corps or the
 Director of ACTION to serve at least 3 years as a volunteer in the Peace
 Corps or in VISTA; and
 (3) is selected pursuant to the competitive process established under
 subsection (b);
is eligible to participate in the demonstration program authorized by
this part.
 (b) SELECTION PROCEDURES- The Director of the Peace Corps and the Director
 of ACTION shall each establish uniform criteria for the selection on a
 competitive basis of individuals to participate in the training programs
 established under section 162 and to receive educational benefits under
 section 163. The selection procedures established under this section shall
 be designed to provide for the awarding of grants for benefits only to
 students from groups traditionally underrepresented in the Peace Corps or
 VISTA and to students who will specialize in courses of instruction for
 which there is a special need in the Peace Corps or VISTA. Not more than
 50 individuals shall be selected to participate in the training programs
 established under section 162.
SEC. 162. TRAINING PROGRAM.
 The Director of the Peace Corps and the Director of ACTION shall each
 establish and carry out a training program under which each individual
 selected under section 161(b), as part of the course of study which the
 individual is pursuing at the institution of higher education of such
 individual, receives appropriate training in skills that such individual
 will employ in the Peace Corps or VISTA.
SEC. 163. EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS.
 (a) BENEFITS PROVIDED- Each individual who has been selected under section
 161(b) shall be eligible to receive educational benefits in an amount that
 the Director of the Peace Corps or the Director of ACTION finds reasonable and
 appropriate, but that shall not exceed the costs of tuition, room and board,
 books, and fees that the individual incurs in attending the institution
 of higher education of such individual during the remaining 2 years of the
 educational program in which the individual is enrolled.
 (b) FORM OF BENEFITS- The educational benefits provided to an individual
 under subsection (a) shall be in the form of grants, remissions of expenses,
 or such other form as the Director of the Peace Corps or the Director of
 ACTION considers appropriate.
 (c) REPAYMENT OF BENEFITS- An individual provided benefits under subsection
 (a) shall repay the amount of the benefits so provided, plus interest not
 to exceed that permitted under section 427A of the Higher Education Act of
 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1077a)--
 (1) if the individual fails to complete the educational program of such
 individual within the 2-year period specified in section 161(a)(1), or
 (2) if the individual fails to serve 3 years as a volunteer in the Peace
 Corps or VISTA upon completing the educational program of such individual.
The Director of the Peace Corps or the Director of ACTION may waive the
repayment requirement if exceptional circumstances, such as illness or death,
prevent an individual from meeting such 2-year or 3-year requirement.
 (d) COLLECTION BY SECRETARY OF EDUCATION- The Secretary of Education
 shall have the authority to collect amounts owed by an individual under
 subsection (c). The Secretary may, for the purpose of collecting such
 amounts, exercise the authorities conferred on the Secretary by sections 467
 and 468 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087gg and 1087hh)
 with respect to the collection of defaulted loans under part E of title IV
 of that Act. Amounts collected under this subsection shall be deposited in
 the general fund of the Treasury.
SEC. 164. EVALUATION AND REPORT.
 The General Accounting Office shall conduct an evaluation of any program
 authorized by this part and shall prepare and submit to the President and
 the appropriate committees of Congress--
 (1) not later than October 31, 1993, an interim report on such evaluation; and
 (2) not later than October 31, 1995, a final report on such evaluation,
 together with such recommendations, including recommendations for legislation,
 as the Director of the Peace Corps, the Director of ACTION, and the Secretary
 consider appropriate.
PART IV--OTHER VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS
SEC. 165. RURAL YOUTH SERVICE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
 The Commission is authorized, in accordance with this subtitle, to make
 grants and enter into contracts under section 102 for the establishment of
 demonstration projects in rural areas. Such projects may include volunteer
 service involving the elderly and assisted-living services performed by
 students, school dropouts, and out-of-school youth.
SEC. 166. ASSISTANCE FOR HEAD START.
 The Commission, in consultation with the Director of ACTION, is authorized
 to make grants  under section 102 to grantees under the Foster Grandparent
 Program (part B of title II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act)
 for the purpose of increasing the number of low-income individuals who
 provide services under such program to children who participate in Head
 Start programs.
SEC. 167. EMPLOYER-BASED RETIREE VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS.
 The Commission is authorized to make grants under section 102 to public and
 private nonprofit organizations for the purpose of bringing together retirees,
 their former employers, and community agencies to develop employer-based
 retiree volunteer programs.
Subtitle F--Administrative Provisions
SEC. 171. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF GRANTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall not award more than one grant during
 each fiscal year to each State under section 102.
 (b) NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS- In submitting applications for a grant under
 section 102, a State shall consolidate all of the applications of such
 State for the conduct of programs under subtitles B through E, into a single
 application that meets the requirements of such subtitles.
 (c) MULTIPLE USE- A grant awarded under section 102 to a State may be used
 by the State in accordance with the applications consolidated, submitted,
 and approved under subtitles B through E.
SEC. 172. REPORTS.
 (a) STATE REPORTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Each State receiving assistance under this title shall
 prepare and submit, to the Commission, an annual report concerning the
 use of assistance provided under this title and the status of the national
 and community service programs that receive assistance under such title in
 such State.
 (2) LOCAL GRANTEES- Each State may require local grantees that receive
 assistance under this title to supply such information to the State as
 is necessary to enable the State to complete the report required under
 paragraph (1), including a comparison of actual accomplishments with the
 goals established for the program, the number of participants in the program,
 the number of service hours generated, and the existence of any problems,
 delays or adverse conditions that have affected or will affect the attainment
 of program goals.
 (3) REPORT DEMONSTRATING COMPLIANCE-
 (A) IN GENERAL- Each State receiving assistance under this title shall
 include information in the report required under paragraph (1) that
 demonstrates the compliance of the State with the provisions of this Act,
 including sections 177 and 113(9).
 (B) LOCAL GRANTEES- Each State may require local grantees to supply such
 information to the State as is necessary to enable the State to comply with
 the requirement of paragraph (1).
 (4) AVAILABILITY OF REPORT- Reports submitted under paragraph (1) shall be
 made available to the public on request.
 (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year,
 the Commission shall prepare and submit, to the appropriate authorizing and
 appropriation Committees of Congress, a report concerning the programs that
 receive assistance under this title.
 (2) CONTENT- Reports submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain a summary
 of the information contained in the State reports submitted under subsection
 (a), and shall reflect the findings and actions taken as a result of any
 evaluation conducted by the Commission.
SEC. 173. SUPPLEMENTATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Assistance provided under this title shall be used to
 supplement the level of State and local public funds expended for services
 of the type assisted under this title in the previous fiscal year.
 (b) AGGREGATE EXPENDITURE- Subsection (a) shall be satisfied, with respect
 to a particular program, if the aggregate expenditure for such program for
 the fiscal year in which services are to be provided will not be less than
 the aggregate expenditure for such program in the previous fiscal year,
 excluding the amount of Federal assistance provided and any other amounts
 used to pay the remainder of the costs of programs assisted under this title.
SEC. 174. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.
 (a) PROHIBITED USES- No assistance made available under a grant under
 this title shall be used to provide religious instruction, conduct worship
 services, or engage in any form of proselytization.
 (b) POLITICAL ACTIVITY- Assistance provided under this title shall not be
 used by program participants and program staff to--
 (1) assist, promote, or deter union organizing; or
 (2) finance, directly or indirectly, any activity designed to influence the
 outcome of an election to Federal office or the outcome of an election to
 a State or local public office.
 (c) CONTRACTS OR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS- A program that receives
 assistance under this title shall not impair existing contracts for services
 or collective bargaining agreements.
SEC. 175. NONDISCRIMINATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- An individual with responsibility for the operation of a
 project that receives assistance under this title shall not discriminate
 against a participant or member of the staff of such project on the basis of
 race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, or political affiliation
 of such member.
 (b) FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- Any assistance provided under this title
 shall constitute Federal financial assistance for purposes of title VI of
 the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), title IX of the
 Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), the Rehabilitation
 Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975
 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), and the regulations issued under such Acts.
 (c) RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), an individual with
 responsibility for the operation of a project that receives assistance
 under this title shall not discriminate on the basis of religion against a
 participant or a member of the project staff who is paid with funds received
 under this title.
 (2) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the employment, with
 assistance provided under this title, of any member of the staff of a
 project that receives assistance under this title who was employed with the
 organization operating the project on the date the grant under this title
 was awarded.
 (d) RULES AND REGULATIONS- The Commission shall promulgate rules and
 regulations to provide for the enforcement of this section that shall include
 provisions for summary suspension of assistance for not more than 30 days,
 on an emergency basis, until notice and an opportunity to be heard can
 be provided.
SEC. 176. NOTICE, HEARING, AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
 (a) In General-
 (1) SUSPENSION OF PAYMENTS- The Commission may in accordance with the
 provisions of this title, suspend or terminate payments under a contract or
 grant providing assistance under this title whenever the Commission determines
 there is a material failure to comply with this title or the applicable terms
 and conditions of any such grant or contract issued pursuant to this title.
 (2) PROCEDURES TO ENSURE ASSISTANCE- The Commission shall prescribe procedures
 to ensure that--
 (A) assistance provided under this title shall not be suspended for failure
 to comply with the applicable terms and conditions of this title except,
 in emergency situations, a suspension may be granted for 30 days; and
 (B) assistance provided under this title shall not be terminated for failure
 to comply with applicable terms and conditions of this title unless the
 recipient of such assistance has been afforded reasonable notice and
 opportunity for a full and fair hearing.
 (b) HEARINGS- Hearings or other meetings that may be necessary to fulfill
 the requirements of this section shall be held at locations convenient to
 the recipient of assistance under this title.
 (c) TRANSCRIPT OR RECORDING- A transcript or recording shall be made of a
 hearing conducted under this section and shall be available for inspection
 by any individual.
 (d) STATE LEGISLATION- Nothing in this title shall be construed to preclude
 the enactment of State legislation providing for the implementation,
 consistent with this title, of the programs administered under this title.
 (e) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this title shall be construed to link performance
 of service with receipt of Federal student financial assistance.
 (f) GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE--
 (1) IN GENERAL- State and local applicants that receive assistance under this
 title shall establish and maintain a procedure to adjudicate grievances from
 participants, labor organizations, and other interested individuals concerning
 programs that receive assistance under this title, including grievances
 regarding proposed placements of such participants in such projects.
 (2) DEADLINE FOR GRIEVANCES- Except for a grievance that alleges fraud or
 criminal activity, a grievance shall be made not later than 1 year after
 the date of the alleged occurrence.
 (3) DEADLINE FOR HEARING AND DECISION-
 (A) HEARING- A hearing on any grievance conducted under this subsection
 shall be conducted not later than 30 days of filing such grievance.
 (B) DECISION- A decision on any grievance shall be made not later than 60
 days after the filing of such grievance.
 (4) ARBITRATION-
 (A) IN GENERAL- On the occurrence of an adverse grievance decision, or 60
 days after the filing of such grievance if no decision has been reached,
 the party filing the grievance shall be permitted to submit such grievance
 to binding arbitration before a qualified arbitrator who is jointly selected
 and independent of the interested parties.
 (B) DEADLINE FOR PROCEEDING- An arbitration proceeding shall be held not
 later than 45 days after the request for such arbitration.
 (C) DEADLINE FOR DECISION- A decision concerning such grievance shall be
 made not later than 30 days after the date of such arbitration proceeding.
 (D) COST- The cost of such arbitration proceeding shall be divided evenly
 between the parties to the arbitration.
 (5) PROPOSED PLACEMENT- If a grievance is filed regarding a proposed placement
 of a participant in a program that receives assistance under this title,
 such placement shall not be made unless it is consistent with the resolution
 of the grievance pursuant to this subsection.
 (6) REMEDIES- Remedies for a grievance filed under this subsection include--
 (A) suspension of payments for assistance under this title;
 (B) termination of such payments; and
 (C) prohibition of such placement described in paragraph (5).
SEC. 177. NONDUPLICATION AND NONDISPLACEMENT.
 (a) NONDUPLICATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Assistance provided under this title shall be used only
 for a program that does not duplicate, and is in addition to, an activity
 otherwise available in the locality of such program.
 (2) PRIVATE NONPROFIT ENTITY- Assistance made available under this title
 shall not be provided to a private nonprofit entity to conduct activities
 that are the same or substantially equivalent to activities provided by a
 State or local government agency that such entity resides in, unless the
 requirements of subsection (b) are met.
 (b) NONDISPLACEMENT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- An employer shall not displace an employee or position,
 including partial displacement such as reduction in hours, wages,
 or employment benefits, as a result of the use by such employer of a
 participant in a program receiving assistance under this title.
 (2) SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES- A service opportunity shall not be created under
 this title that will infringe in any manner on the promotional opportunity
 of an employed individual.
 (3) LIMITATION ON SERVICES-
 (A) DUPLICATION OF SERVICES- A participant in a program receiving assistance
 under this title shall not perform any services or duties or engage in
 activities that would otherwise be performed by an employee as part of the
 assigned duties of such employee.
 (B) SUPPLANTATION OF HIRING- A participant in any program receiving
 assistance under this title shall not perform any services or duties or
 engage in activities that will supplant the hiring of employed workers.
 (C) DUTIES FORMERLY PERFORMED BY ANOTHER EMPLOYEE- A participant in any
 program receiving assistance under this title shall not perform services
 or duties that have been performed by or were assigned to any--
 (i) presently employed worker;
 (ii) employee who recently resigned or was discharged;
 (iii) employee who is subject to a reduction in force;
 (iv) employee who is on leave (terminal, temporary, vacation, emergency,
 or sick); or
 (v) employee who is on strike or who is being locked out.
 (c) LABOR MARKET INFORMATION- The Secretary of Labor shall make available
 to the Commission and to any program agency under this title such labor
 market information as is appropriate for use in carrying out the purposes
 of this title.
 (d) TREATMENT OF BENEFITS- Section 142(b) of the Job Training Partnership
 Act shall apply to the projects conducted under this title as such projects
 were conducted under the Job Training Partnership Act.
 (e) STANDARDS OF CONDUCT- Programs that receive assistance under this title
 shall establish and stringently enforce standards of conduct at the program
 site to promote proper moral and disciplinary conditions.
SEC. 178. STATE ADVISORY BOARD.
 (a) FORMATION OF BOARD- Each State that applies for assistance under this
 title is encouraged to establish a State Advisory Board for National and
 Community Service.
 (b) MEMBERS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The chief executive officer of a State referred to in
 subsection (a) shall appoint members to such Advisory Board from among--
 (A) representatives of State agencies administering community service,
 youth service, education, social service, senior service, and job training
 programs; and
 (B) representatives of labor, business, agencies working with youth,
 community-based organizations such as community action agencies, students,
 teachers, Older American Volunteer Programs as established under title II
 of the Domestic Volunteer Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5001 et seq.), full-time
 youth service corps programs, school-based community service programs, higher
 education institutions, local educational agencies, volunteer public safety
 organizations, educational partnership programs, and other organizations
 working with volunteers.
 (2) BALANCE OF MEMBERSHIP- To the extent practicable, the chief executive
 officer of a State referred to in subsection (a) shall ensure that the
 membership of the Advisory Board is balanced according to race, ethnicity,
 age, and gender.
 (c) DUTIES OF BOARD- A State Advisory Board for National and Community
 Service established under subsection (a) shall assist the State agency
 administering a program receiving assistance under this title in--
 (1) coordinating programs that receive assistance under this title and
 related programs within the State;
 (2) disseminating information concerning service programs that receive
 assistance under this title;
 (3) recruiting participants for programs that receive assistance under this
 title; and
 (4) developing programs, training methods, curriculum materials, and other
 materials and activities related to programs that receive assistance under
 this title.
SEC. 179. EVALUATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall provide, through grants or contracts,
 for the continuing evaluation of programs that receive assistance under
 this title, including evaluations that measure the impact of such programs,
 to determine--
 (1) the effectiveness of various program models in achieving stated goals
 and the costs associated with such;
 (2) for purposes of the reports required by subsection (h), the impact of such
 programs, in each State in which a program is conducted, on the ability of--
 (A) the VISTA and older American volunteer programs (established under the
 Domestic Volunteer Services Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.));
 (B) each regular component of the Armed Forces (as defined in section 101(4)
 of title 10, United States Code);
 (C) each of the reserve components of the Armed Forces (as described in
 section 216(a) of title 5, United States Code); and
 (D) the Peace Corps (as established by the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501
 et seq.));
to recruit individuals residing in such State to serve in such program; and
 (3) the structure and mechanisms for delivery of services for such programs.
 (b) COMPARISONS- The Commission shall provide for inclusion in the evaluations
 required under subsection (a), where appropriate, comparisons of participants
 in such programs with individuals who have not participated in such programs.
 (c) CONDUCTING EVALUATIONS- Evaluations of programs under subsection (a)
 shall be conducted by individuals who are not directly involved in the
 administration of such program.
 (d) STANDARDS- The Secretary shall develop and publish general standards
 for the evaluation of program effectiveness in achieving the objectives of
 this title.
 (e) COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION- In evaluating a program receiving assistance
 under this title, the Commission shall consider the opinions of participants
 and members of the communities where services are delivered concerning the
 strengths and weaknesses of such program.
 (f) COMPARISON OF PROGRAM MODELS- The Commission shall evaluate and compare
 the effectiveness of different program models in meeting the program
 objectives described in subsection (g) including full- and part-time
 programs, programs involving different types of national service, programs
 using different recruitment methods, programs offering alternative voucher
 options, and programs utilizing individual placements and teams.
 (g) PROGRAM OBJECTIVES- The Commission shall ensure that programs that
 receive assistance under subtitle D are evaluated to determine their
 effectiveness in--
 (1) recruiting and enrolling diverse participants in such programs, consistent
 with the requirements of section 145, based on economic background, race,
 ethnicity, age, marital status, education levels, and disability;
 (2) promoting the educational achievement of each participant in such
 programs, based on earning a high school diploma or the equivalent of such
 diploma and the future enrollment and completion of increasingly higher
 levels of education;
 (3) encouraging each participant to engage in public and community service
 after completion of the program based on career choices and service in other
 service programs such as the Volunteers in Service to America Program and
 older American volunteer programs established under the Domestic Volunteer
 Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.), the Peace Corps (as established
 by the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.)), the military, and part-time
 volunteer service;
 (4) promoting of positive attitudes among each participant regarding the
 role of such participant in solving community problems based on the view
 of such participant regarding the personal capacity of such participant to
 improve the lives of others, the responsibilities of such participant as
 a citizen and community member, and other factors;
 (5) enabling each participant to finance a lesser portion of the higher
 education of such participant through student loans;
 (6) providing services and projects that benefit the community;
 (7) supplying additional volunteer assistance to community agencies without
 overloading such agencies with more volunteers than can effectively be
 utilized;
 (8) providing services and activities that could not otherwise be performed
 by employed workers and that will not supplant the hiring of, or result in
 the displacement of, employed workers or impair the existing contracts of
 such workers; and
 (9) attracting a greater number of citizens to public service, including
 service in the active and reserve components of the Armed Forces, the National
 Guard, the Peace Corps (as established by the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501
 et seq.)), and the VISTA and older American volunteer programs established
 under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
 (h) OBTAINING INFORMATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In conducting the evaluations required under subsection
 (g), the Commission may require each program participant and State or local
 applicant to provide such information as may be necessary to carry out the
 requirements of this section.
 (2) CONFIDENTIALITY- The Commission shall keep information acquired under
 this section confidential.
 (i) DEADLINE- The Commission shall complete the evaluations required under
 subsection (g) not later than 30 months after the date of enactment of
 this Act.
 (j) REPORT- Not later than 24 months after the date on which the first
 program is initiated under this title, the Commission shall prepare and
 submit, to the appropriate Committees of Congress, a report containing the
 results of the evaluations conducted under subsection (a)(2) with respect
 to the first 18 months after such initiation date.
SEC. 180. ENGAGEMENT OF PARTICIPANTS.
 A State shall not engage a participant to serve in any program that
 receives assistance under this title unless and until amounts have been
 appropriated under section 501 for the provision of post-service benefits
 and for the payment of other necessary expenses and costs associated with
 such participant.
SEC. 181. NATIONAL SERVICE DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TREATMENT OF EDUCATION AND HOUSING BENEFITS- For purposes of determining
 eligibility for programs under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `Act'), post-service benefits received under this Act shall be considered
 as estimated financial assistance as defined in section 428(a)(2)(C)(i)
 of title IV of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1078(a)(2)(C)(i)), except that in no case
 shall such a post-service benefit be considered as--
 (1) annual adjusted family income as defined in section 411F(1) of subpart
 1 of part A of title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070a-6); or
 (2) total income as defined in section 480(a) of part F of title IV of such
 Act (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(a)).
 (b) TREATMENT OF STIPEND FOR LIVING EXPENSES- In no case shall living
 allowances received under this Act be considered in the determination of
 expected family contribution or independent student status under--
 (1) subpart 1 of part A of title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070a et seq.); or
 (2) part F of title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1087kk et seq.).
 (c) CONTINGENT EXTENSION- Section 414 of the General Education Provisions
 Act (20 U.S.C. 1226a) shall apply to this Act.
SEC. 182. PARTNERSHIPS WITH SCHOOLS.
 (a) DESIGN OF PROGRAMS- The head of each Federal agency and department
 shall design and implement a comprehensive strategy to involve employees
 of such agencies and departments in partnership programs with elementary
 schools and secondary schools. Such strategy shall include--
 (1) a review of existing programs to identify and expand the opportunities
 for such employees to be adult volunteers in schools and for students and
 out-of-school youth;
 (2) the designation of a senior official in each such agency and department
 who will be responsible for establishing adult volunteer and partnership and
 youth service programs in each such agency and department and for developing
 adult volunteer and partnership and youth service programs;
 (3) the encouragement of employees of such agencies and departments to
 participate in adult volunteer and partnership programs and other service
 projects;
 (4) the annual recognition of outstanding service programs operated by
 Federal agencies; and
 (5) the encouragement of businesses and professional firms to include
 community service among the factors considered in making hiring, compensation,
 and promotion decisions.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, and on a regular basis thereafter, the head of each Federal agency
 and department shall prepare and submit, to the appropriate Committees of
 Congress, a report concerning the implementation of this section.
SEC. 183. SERVICE AS TUTORS.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, a service opportunity
 through which a part-time participant serves as a classroom tutor under the
 supervision of a certified professional shall be considered an acceptable
 placement if the requirements of section 177(b) (1) and (2) and section
 174 are met.
SEC. 184. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE REQUIREMENTS.
 All programs receiving grants under this title shall be subject to the
 Drug-Free Workplace Requirements for Federal Grant Recipients under sections
 5153 through 5158 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 702-707).
SEC. 185. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 The Higher Education Act of 1965 is amended--
 (1) in section 411F(9) (20 U.S.C. 1070a-6(9)), by adding at the end thereof
 the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) Annual adjusted family income does not include any living allowance
 received by a participant in programs established under the National and
 Community Service Act of 1990.';
 (2) in section 411F(12)(B)(vi) (20 U.S.C. 1070a-6(12)(B)(vi)), by striking
 `(including all sources of resources other than parents)' and inserting
 `(including all sources of resources other than parents and living allowances
 received as a result of participation in a program established under the
 National and Community Service Act of 1990.)';
 (3) in section 480(f) (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(f)), by--
 (A) striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting a
 semicolon and `and'; and
 (C) adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(3) any living allowance received by a participant in a program established
 under the National and Community Service Act of 1990.'; and
 (4) in section 480(d)(2)(F) (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(d)(2)(F)), by inserting after
 `other than parents' `and living allowances as a result of participation in
 a program established under the National and Community Service Act of 1990)'.
Subtitle G--Commission on National and Community Service
SEC. 190. COMMISSION ON NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a Commission on National and Community
 Service that shall administer the programs established under this title.
 (b) BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
 (1) COMPOSITION-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall be administered by a Board of Directors
 (hereinafter referred to in this section as the `Board') that shall be
 composed of 21 members, to be appointed by the President with the advice
 and consent of the Senate, who shall be individuals who have extensive
 experience in volunteer and service opportunity programs and who represent
 a broad range of viewpoints. The membership of the Board shall be balanced
 according to the race, ethnicity age and gender of its members.
 (B) EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS- The Secretary of Education, Secretary of Health
 and Human Services, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Interior, Secretary of
 Agriculture, and the Director of the ACTION agency shall serve as ex-officio
 members of the Board.
 (2) POLITICAL PARTIES- Not more than 11 members of the Board shall belong
 to the same political party.
 (3) NOMINATIONS- Seven members of the Board shall be appointed from among
 individuals nominated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and
 seven of such members shall be appointed from among individuals nominated
 by the majority leader of the Senate.
 (4) TERMS- Each member of the Board shall serve for a term of 2 years, except
 that, subject to the provisions of paragraph (4), 11 of the initial members
 of the Board shall serve for a term of 1 year, as designated by the President.
 (5) VACANCIES- As vacancies occur on the Board, new members shall be appointed
 by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, and serve for the
 remainder of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed.
 (6) CHAIRPERSON- The Board shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson
 from among its membership.
 (7) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet not less than three times each year. The
 Board shall hold additional meetings if seven members of the Board request
 such meetings in writing. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
 (8) EXPENSES- While away from their homes or regular places of business on the
 business of the Board, members of such Board may be allowed travel expenses,
 including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as is authorized under section
 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons employed intermittently
 in the Government service.
 (c) DUTIES- The Board shall--
 (1) advise the President and the Congress concerning developments in
 national and community service that merit the attention of the President
 and the Congress;
 (2) design, administer and disseminate information regarding the programs
 and initiatives established under this title;
 (3) consult with appropriate Federal agencies in administering programs
 that receive assistance under this title;
 (4) have the authority to delegate authority to administer the programs
 established under this title to any other agency or entity of the Federal
 Government, on the agreement of such agency or entity, as the Board
 determines appropriate;
 (5) provide, directly or through contract with public or private nonprofit
 organizations that have extensive experience in service programs, training and
 technical assistance to States, school and community-based service programs,
 full-time youth service corps, and national service demonstration programs;
 (6) arrange for the evaluation of programs established under this title,
 in accordance with section 179;
 (7) coordinate with the Secretary of Defense in evaluating the effect of
 the national service demonstration program on the recruitment efforts of
 the active and reserve components of the Armed Forces; and
 (8) carry out any other activities determined appropriate by the Secretary.
 (d) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE BOARD-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Board shall appoint an individual to serve as Executive
 Director of the Board (hereinafter referred to in this section as the
 `Director').
 (2) DUTIES- The Director shall advise the Board concerning developments
 in volunteer or national service that the Director determines merits
 the attention of the Board, identify promising service initiatives, and
 coordinate the work of the Board with the work of other Federal agencies
 involved in service activities and in the design of a competitive grant to
 provide assistance as authorized under this title.
 (e) TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES- The Director may, at the discretion of the
 Board, appoint not more than 10 technical employees to administer the
 Committee. Such employees shall be appointed for terms that shall not exceed
 2 years, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to
 the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title
 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
 (f) CLEARINGHOUSES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall provide assistance to not more than
 four regional service clearinghouses.
 (2) PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NONPROFIT AGENCIES- Public and private nonprofit
 agencies that have extensive experience in community service, adult volunteer
 and partnership programs, youth service, intergenerational service programs,
 and programs working with at-risk youth shall be eligible to receive
 assistance under paragraph (1).
 (3) FUNCTION OF CLEARINGHOUSES- National and regional clearinghouses that
 receive assistance under paragraph (1) shall--
 (A) assist State and local community service programs with needs assessments
 and planning;
 (B) conduct research and evaluations concerning community service;
 (C) provide leadership development and training to State and local community
 service program administrators, supervisors, and participants;
 (D) administer award and recognition programs for outstanding community
 service programs and participants;
 (E) facilitate communication among community service programs and
 participants;
 (F) provide information, curriculum materials, technical assistance on
 program planning and operation, and training to States and local entities
 eligible to receive funds under this title;
 (G) gather and disseminate information on successful programs, components
 of successful programs, innovative youth skills curriculum, and projects
 being implemented nationwide; and
 (H) make recommendations to State and local entities on quality controls
 to improve program delivery and on changes in the programs under this title.
 (g) PRESIDENTIAL AWARDS FOR SERVICES-
 (1) PRESIDENTIAL AWARDS-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The President, acting through the Commission, is authorized
 to make Presidential Awards for service to--
 (i) individuals demonstrating outstanding community service including
 school-based service;
 (ii) outstanding service learning and community service programs; and
 (iii) outstanding teachers in service-learning programs.
 (B) NUMBER OF AWARDS- The President is authorized to make one or more
 individual, one or more teaching, and one or more program awards in each
 Congressional district, and one or more Statewide individual program and
 teaching awards in each State.
 (C) CONSULTATION- The President shall consult with the Governor of each
 State, and with the Board, in the selection of individuals and programs
 for Presidential Awards.
 (D) PARTICIPANTS IN PROGRAMS- An individual receiving an award under this
 subsection need not be a participant in a program assisted under this title.
 (2) INFORMATION- The President shall ensure that information concerning
 individuals and programs receiving awards under this subsection is widely
 disseminated.
 (h) REPORT- Not later than January 1, 1993, the President shall prepare and
 submit to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the
 Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives, a report
 containing  recommendations for the improvement of the administration
 and coordination of volunteer, national, and community service programs
 administered by the ACTION Agency, the Commission on National Service,
 and other Federal entities. Such report shall include--
 (1) an assessment of whether Federal volunteer, national and community
 service programs could be more cost effectively and efficiently administered
 by a single Federal entity or fewer entities, including an estimate of any
 cost savings that could be achieved by consolidating or centralizing the
 management of such programs; and
 (2) a description of the roles and responsibilities of the ACTION Agency,
 the Commission on National Service and other Federal entities in developing
 and coordinating National policy on voluntarism and national and community
 service and any recommendations for clarifying or altering the missions
 and responsibilities of such entities which may be appropriate.
TITLE II--MODIFICATIONS OF EXISTING PROGRAMS
Subtitle B--Publication
SEC. 201. INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS.
 Section 485(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092(a)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (J);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (K) and inserting
 in lieu thereof a semicolon and the word `and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(L) the terms and conditions under which students receiving guaranteed
 student loans under part B of this title or direct student loans under part
 E of this title, or both, may--
 `(i) obtain deferral of the repayment of the principal and interest for
 service under the Peace Corps Act (as established by the Peace Corps Act
 (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.)) or under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of
 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.), or for comparable full-time service as a
 volunteer for a tax-exempt organization of demonstrated effectiveness in
 the field of community service, and
 `(ii) obtain partial cancellation of the student loan for service under the
 Peace Corps Act (as established by the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et
 seq.)) under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et
 seq.) or, for comparable full-time service as a volunteer for a tax-exempt
 organization of demonstrated effectiveness in the field of community
 service.'.
SEC. 202. EXIT COUNSELING FOR BORROWERS.
 Section 485(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092(b))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon and `and'; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) the terms and conditions under which the student may obtain partial
 cancellation or defer repayment of the principal and interest for service
 under the Peace Corps Act (as established by the Peace Corps Act (22
 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.)) or under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973
 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.) or for comparable full-time service as a volunteer
 for a tax-exempt organization of demonstrated effectiveness.'.
SEC. 203. DEPARTMENT INFORMATION ON DEFERMENTS AND CANCELLATIONS.
 Section 485(d) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092(d)) is
 amended by inserting before the last sentence the following new sentence:
 `The Secretary shall provide information concerning the specific terms and
 conditions under which students may obtain partial or total cancellation
 or defer repayment of loans for service, shall indicate (in terms of the
 Federal minimum wage) the maximum level of compensation and allowances that
 a student borrower may receive from a tax-exempt organization to qualify
 for a deferment, and shall explicitly state that students may qualify for
 such partial cancellations or deferments when they serve as a paid employee
 of a tax-exempt organization'.
SEC. 204. DATA ON DEFERMENTS AND CANCELLATIONS.
 Section 485B(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1092b(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon and `and'; and
 (3) by adding the following new paragraph after paragraph (4):
 `(5) the exact amount of loans partially or totally canceled or in deferment
 for service under the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.)), for service
 under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.),
 and for comparable full-time service as a volunteer for a tax-exempt
 organization of demonstrated effectiveness.'.
Subtitle B--Youthbuild Projects
SEC. 211. YOUTHBUILD PROJECTS.
 The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.) is
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new title:
`TITLE VII--YOUTHBUILD PROJECTS
`SEC. 701. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this title--
 `(1) to provide economically disadvantaged young adults with opportunities
 for meaningful service to their communities in helping to meet the housing
 needs of homeless individuals and low-income families; and
 `(2) to enable economically disadvantaged young adults to obtain the education
 and employment skills necessary to achieve economic self-sufficiency.
`SEC. 702. AUTHORIZATION OF PROGRAM.
 `(a) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- The Director of the ACTION Agency, in consultation
 with the Secretary of Labor, may provide grants to pay the Federal share
 of the cost of carrying out Youthbuild projects in accordance with this title.
 `(b) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share under subsection (a) for each fiscal
 year shall not exceed 90 percent.
`SEC. 703. SERVICE IN CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECTS.
 `(a) CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECTS- Eligible participants serving
 in Youthbuild projects receiving assistance under this title shall be employed
 in the construction, rehabilitation, or improvement of real property to be
 used for purposes of providing--
 `(1) residential rental housing that is occupied primarily by, or available
 for occupancy primarily by, homeless individuals and low-income families;
 `(2) transitional housing for homeless individuals;
 `(3) facilities for the provision of health, education, and other social
 services to low-income families, including--
 `(A) senior citizen centers;
 `(B) youth recreation centers;
 `(C) Head Start or child or adult day care centers; and
 `(D) community health centers.
 `(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES- No assistance may be provided
 under this title to support the construction, rehabilitation, or improvement
 of real property to be used to provide facilities described in subsection
 (a) unless the property--
 `(1) is used principally by or for the benefit of low-income families;
 `(2) is owned and occupied solely by public or private nonprofit entities; and
 `(3) is located in census tracts, or identifiable neighborhoods within census
 tracts, in which the median family income is not more than 80 percent of the
 median family income of the area in which the facility is located, as such
 median family income and area are determined for the purposes of assistance
 under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
 `(c) RESTRICTION OF USE- Participants under this title may not be employed
 in the construction, operation, or maintenance of any facility used for
 sectarian instruction or religious worship.
`SEC. 704. EDUCATION AND JOB TRAINING SERVICES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Assistance provided under this title shall be used by each
 Youthbuild project to provide to participants the following:
 `(1) SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES- Service opportunities in the construction or
 rehabilitation projects described in section 703, which shall be integrated
 with appropriate skills training and coordinated with, to the extent feasible,
 preapprenticeship and apprenticeship programs.
 `(2) EDUCATIONAL SERVICES- Services and activities designed to meet the
 educational needs of participants, including--
 `(A) basic skills instruction and remedial education;
 `(B) bilingual education for individuals with limited English proficiency; and
 `(C) secondary education services and activities designed to lead to the
 attainment of a high school diploma or its equivalent.
 `(3) PERSONAL AND PEER SUPPORTS- Counseling services and other activities
 designed to--
 `(A) ensure that participants overcome personal problems that would interfere
 with their successful participation; and
 `(B) develop a strong, mutually supportive peer context in which values,
 goals, cultural heritage, and life skills can be explored and strengthened.
 `(4) LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT- Opportunities to develop the decisionmaking,
 speaking, negotiating, and other leadership skills of participants, such
 as the establishment and operation of a youth council with meaningful
 decisionmaking authority over aspects of the project.
 `(5) PREPARATION FOR AND PLACEMENT IN UNSUBSIDIZED EMPLOYMENT- Activities
 designed to maximize the value of participants as future employees and to
 prepare participants for seeking, obtaining, and retaining unsubsidized
 employment.
 `(6) NECESSARY SUPPORT SERVICES- To provide support services and need-based
 stipends necessary to enable individuals to participate in the program and,
 for a period not to exceed 6 months after completion of training, to assist
 participants through support services in retaining employment.
 `(b) CONDITIONS- The provision of service opportunities to participants
 in Youthbuild projects shall be made conditional upon attendance
 and participation by such individuals in the educational services and
 activities described in subsection (a). The duration of participation for
 each individual in educational services and activities shall be at least
 equal to the total number of hours for which a participant serves and is
 paid wages by a Youthbuild project.
`SEC. 705. USES OF FUNDS.
 `(a) FUNDS- Funds provided under this title may be used only for activities
 that are in addition to activities that would otherwise be available in
 the absence of such funds.
 `(b) ASSISTANCE CRITERIA- Assistance provided to each Youthbuild project
 under this title shall be used only for--
 `(1) education and job training services and activities described in
 paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of section 704(a);
 `(2) wages and benefits paid to participants in accordance with sections
 704(a) and 706; and
 `(3) administrative expenses incurred by the project in an amount not to
 exceed 10 percent of the amount of assistance provided to the project under
 this title unless such project receives a waiver, on the basis of substantial
 need, granted by the Director to use an amount not to exceed 15 percent of
 the amount of such assistance provided under this title for such purposes.
`SEC. 706. ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), an individual shall
 be eligible to participate in a Youthbuild project receiving assistance
 under this title if such individual is--
 `(1) 16 to 24 years of age, inclusive;
 `(2) economically disadvantaged; and
 `(3) an individual who has dropped out of high school whose reading and
 mathematics skills are at or below the 8th grade level.
 `(b) EXCEPTIONS- Not more than 25 percent of the participants in a Youthbuild
 project receiving assistance under this title may be individuals who do
 not meet the requirements of subsection (a).
 `(c) PARTICIPATION LIMITATION- Any eligible individual selected for full-time
 participation in a Youthbuild project may participate full-time for a period
 of not less than 6 months and not more than 18 months.
`SEC. 707. LIVING ALLOWANCES.
 `(a) AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each participant in a full-time Youthbuild program that
 receives assistance under this title shall receive a living allowance of not
 more than an amount equal to 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of
 two (as defined in section 673(2) of the Community Service Block Grant Act
 (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)).
 `(2) NON-FEDERAL SOURCES- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a program agency
 may provide participants with additional amounts that are made available
 from non-Federal sources.
 `(3) REDUCTION IN EXISTING PROGRAM BENEFITS- Nothing in this section shall be
 construed to require a program in existence on the date of enactment of this
 title to decrease any stipends, salaries, or living allowances provided to
 participants under such program so long as the amount of any such stipend,
 salaries, or living allowances that is in excess of the levels provided
 for in this section are paid from non-Federal sources.
 `(b) NONDISCRIMINATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), an individual
 with responsibility for the operation of a Youthbuild project shall not
 discriminate on the basis of religion against a participant or a member of
 the project staff who is paid with funds under this title.
 `(2) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the employment, with funds
 provided under this title, of any member of the staff of a Youthbuild
 project who was employed with the organization operating the project on
 the date the grant funded under this title was awarded.
`SEC. 708. CONTRACTS.
 `Each Youthbuild project shall carry out the services and activities
 under this title directly or through arrangements or under contracts with
 administrative entities designated under section 103(b)(1)(B) of the Job
 Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501(b)(1)(B)), with State and local
 educational agencies, institutions of higher education, State and local
 housing development agencies, and with other public agencies and private
 organizations.
`SEC. 709. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor,
 shall prescribe standards for evaluating the performance of Youthbuild
 projects receiving assistance under this title, including the following
 factors:
 `(1) Placement in unsubsidized employment.
 `(2) Retention in unsubsidized employment.
 `(3) An increase in earnings.
 `(4) Improvement of reading and other basic skills.
 `(5) Attainment of a high school diploma or its equivalent.
 `(6) Completion of projects providing a benefit to the community.
 `(b) VARIATIONS- The Director shall prescribe variations to the standards
 determined under subsection (a) by taking into account the economic
 conditions of the areas in which Youthbuild projects are located and
 appropriate special characteristics, such as the extent of English language
 proficiency and offender status of Youthbuild participants.
`SEC. 710. APPLICATIONS.
 `(a) SUBMISSION- To apply for a grant under this title, an eligible entity
 shall submit an application to the Director in accordance with procedures
 established by the Director.
 `(b) CRITERIA- Each such application shall--
 `(1) describe the educational services, job training, supportive services,
 service opportunities, and other services and activities that will be
 provided to participants;
 `(2) describe the proposed construction of rehabilitation activities to be
 undertaken and the anticipated schedule for carrying out such activities;
 `(3) describe the manner in which eligible youths will be recruited and
 selected, including a description of arrangements which will be made
 with community-based organizations, State and local educational agencies,
 public assistance agencies, the courts of jurisdiction for status and youth
 offenders, homeless shelters and other agencies that serve homeless youth,
 foster care agencies, and other appropriate public and private agencies;
 `(4) describe the special outreach efforts that will be undertaken to
 recruit eligible young women (including young women with dependent children);
 `(5) describe how the proposed project will be coordinated with other
 Federal, State, and local activities, including vocational, adult and
 bilingual education programs, job training supported by funds available
 under the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) and the
 Family Support Act of 1988, housing and economic development, and programs
 that receive assistance under section 106 of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306);
 `(6) provide assurances that there will be a sufficient number of supervisory
 personnel on the project and that the supervisory personnel are trained in
 the skills needed to carry out the project;
 `(7) describe activities that will be undertaken to develop the leadership
 skills of participants;
 `(8) set forth a detailed budget and describe the system of fiscal controls
 and auditing and accountability procedures that will be used to ensure
 fiscal soundness; and
 `(9) set forth assurances, arrangements, and conditions the Director
 determines are necessary to carry out this title.
`SEC. 711. SELECTION OF PROJECTS.
 `In approving applications for assistance under this title, the Director
 shall give priority to applicants that demonstrate the following:
 `(1) POTENTIAL FOR SUCCESS- The greatest likelihood of success, as
 indicated by such factors as the past experience of an applicant with
 housing rehabilitation or construction, youth and youth education and
 employment training programs, management capacity, fiscal reliability,
 and community support.
 `(2) NEED- Have the greatest need for assistance, as determined by factors
 such as--
 `(A) the degree of economic distress of the community from which participants
 would be recruited, including--
 `(i) the extent of poverty;
 `(ii) the extent of youth unemployment; and
 `(iii) the number of individuals who have dropped out of high school; and
 `(B) the degree of economic distress of the locality in which the housing
 would be rehabilitated or constructed, including--
 `(i) objective measures of the incidence of homelessness;
 `(ii) the relation between the supply of affordable housing for low-income
 families and the number of such families in the locality;
 `(iii) the extent of housing overcrowding; and
 `(iv) the extent of poverty.
`SEC. 712. MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) GENERAL ADMINISTRATION- The program established under this title
 shall be administered by an individual with significant experience in
 the administration of youth service programs that explicitly attempt to
 enhance the basic academic and vocational skills of participants in such
 programs. The Director is authorized to delegate any of the functions of the
 Director under this title as may be appropriate to the Secretary of Labor
 and provide for the performance of any of the provisions of this title on
 a cost-reimbursable basis by the Secretary of Labor.
 `(b) DIRECTOR ASSISTANCE- The Director may enter into contracts with a
 qualified public or private nonprofit agency to provide assistance to the
 Director in the management, supervision, and coordination of Youthbuild
 projects receiving assistance under this title.
 `(c) SPONSOR ASSISTANCE- The Director shall enter into contracts with
 a qualified public or private nonprofit agency to provide appropriate
 training, information, and technical assistance to sponsors of projects
 assisted under this title.
 `(d) APPLICATION PREPARATION- Technical assistance may also be provided in
 the development of project proposals and the preparation of applications
 for assistance under this title to eligible entities which intend or desire
 to submit such applications. Community-based organizations shall be given
 first priority in the provision of such assistance.
 `(e) RESERVATION OF FUNDS- The Director shall reserve 5 percent of the amounts
 available in each fiscal year under section 715 to carry out subsections
 (c) and (d).
`SEC. 713. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this title:
 `(1) COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS- The term `community-based organizations'
 has the meaning given such term in section 4(8) of the Job Training
 Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(8)).
 `(2) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of the ACTION agency.
 `(3) DROPPED OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL- The term `individual who has dropped out
 of high school' means an individual who is neither attending any school nor
 subject to a compulsory attendance law and who has not received a secondary
 school diploma or a certificate of equivalency for such diploma, but does
 not include any individual who has attended secondary school at any time
 during the preceding 6 months.
 `(4) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED- The term `economically disadvantaged' has
 the meaning given such term in section 4(8) of the Job Training Partnership
 Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(8)).
 `(5) ELIGIBLE ENTITY- The term `eligible entity' means a public or private
 nonprofit agency, such as--
 `(A) community-based organizations;
 `(B) administrative entities designated under section 103(b)(1)(B) of the
 Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501(b)(1)(B));
 `(C) community action agencies;
 `(D) State and local housing development agencies;
 `(E) State and local youth service and conservation corps; and
 `(F) any other entity that is eligible to provide education and employment
 training under other Federal employment training programs.
 `(6) HOMELESS INDIVIDUAL- The term `homeless individual' has the meaning given
 such term in section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act
 (42 U.S.C. 11302).
 `(7) HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AGENCY- The term `housing development agency'
 means any agency of a State or local government, or any private nonprofit
 organization that is engaged in providing housing for the homeless or
 low-income families.
 `(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION- The term `institution of higher
 education' has the meaning given such term in section 1201(a) of the Higher
 Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)).
 `(9) LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY- The term `limited English proficiency'
 has the meaning given such term in section 7003 of the Bilingual Education
 Act (20 U.S.C. 3223).
 `(10) LOW-INCOME FAMILY- The term `low-income family' has the meaning given
 the term `lower income families' in section 3(b)(2) of the United States
 Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)).
 `(11) OFFENDER- The term `offender' means any adult or juvenile with a
 record of arrest or conviction for a criminal offense.
 `(12) QUALIFIED NONPROFIT AGENCY- The term `qualified public or private
 nonprofit agency' means any nonprofit agency that has significant prior
 experience in the operation of projects similar to the Youthbuild program
 authorized under this title and that has the capacity to provide effective
 technical assistance under this title.
 `(13) RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PURPOSES- The term `residential rental purposes'
 includes a cooperative or mutual housing facility that has a resale
 structure that enables the cooperative to maintain affordability for
 low-income individuals and families.
 `(14) SERVICE OPPORTUNITY- The term `service opportunity' means the
 opportunity to perform work in return for wages and benefits in the
 construction or rehabilitation of real property in accordance with this title.
 `(15) STATE- The term `State' means any of the several States, the District of
 Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern
 Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
 territory or possession of the United States.
 `(16) TRANSITIONAL HOUSING- The term `transitional housing' means a
 project that has as its purpose facilitating the movement of homeless
 individuals and families to independent living within a reasonable amount
 of time. Transitional housing includes housing primarily designed to serve
 deinstitutionalized homeless individuals and other homeless individuals
 with mental or physical disabilities and homeless families with children.
 `(17) YOUTHBUILD PROJECT- The term `Youthbuild project' means any project
 that receives assistance under this title and provides disadvantaged youth
 with opportunities for service, education, and training in the construction
 or rehabilitation of housing for homeless and other low-income individuals.
`SEC. 715. REGULATIONS.
 The Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to carry out this title.
`SEC. 716. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title $1,000,000
 for fiscal year 1991, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and $5,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993.'.
Subtitle C--Amendments to Student Literacy Corps
SEC. 221. AMENDMENTS TO STUDENT LITERACY CORPS.
 (a) INCREASE IN HOURS OF SERVICE- Section 144(b)(2)(B) of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1018 note) is amended by striking `6' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `60' and by striking `each week of' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `during'.
 (b) PRIORITY- Section 144(b)(2)(D) of such Act is amended by inserting
 before the semicolon the following: `and, as provided in section 146,
 will give priority in providing tutoring services to--
 `(i) educationally disadvantaged students receiving services under chapter
 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
 `(ii) illiterate parents of educationally or economically disadvantaged
 elementary school students, with special emphasis on single-parent
 households.'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 146 of such Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' before `In general'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(b) The priorities described in section 144(b)(2)(D) shall be applied by
 the Secretary to funds appropriated which exceed $10,000,000.'.
TITLE III--POINTS OF LIGHT FOUNDATION
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `The Points of Light Foundation Act'.
SEC. 302. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) community service and service to others is an integral part of American
 tradition;
 (2) existing volunteers and volunteer programs should be praised for their
 efforts in helping and serving others;
 (3) the definition of a successful life includes service to others;
 (4) individuals should be encouraged to volunteer their time and energies
 in community service efforts;
 (5) if asked to volunteer or participate in community service, most Americans
 will do so;
 (6) institutions should be encouraged to volunteer their resources and
 energies and should encourage volunteer and community service among their
 members, employees, affiliates; and
 (7) volunteer and community service programs are intended to complement
 and not replace governmental responsibilities.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this title--
 (1) to encourage every American and every American institution to help solve
 our most critical social problems by volunteering their time, energies and
 services through community service projects and initiatives;
 (2) to identify successful and promising community service projects and
 initiatives, and to disseminate information concerning such projects
 and initiatives to other communities in order to promote their adoption
 nationwide; and
 (3) to discover and encourage new leaders and develop individuals and
 institutions that serve as strong examples of a commitment to serving others
 and to convince all Americans that a successful life includes serving others.
SEC. 303. AUTHORITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President is authorized to designate a private, nonprofit
 organization (hereinafter referred to in this title as the Foundation)
 to receive funds pursuant to section 501(b), upon the determination of the
 President that such organization is capable of carrying out the undertakings
 described in section 302. Any such designation by the President shall
 be revocable.
 (b) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this Act shall be construed either--
 (1) to cause the Foundation to be deemed an agency, establishment, or
 instrumentality of the United States Government; or
 (2) to cause the directors, officers or employees of the Foundation to be
 deemed officers or employees of the United States.
SEC. 304. GRANTS TO THE FOUNDATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Funds made available pursuant to sections 303 and 501(b)
 shall be granted to the Foundation by a department or agency in the executive
 branch of the United States Government designated by the President--
 (1) to assist the Foundation in carrying out the undertakings described in
 section 302; and
 (2) for the administrative expenses of the Foundation.
 (b) INTEREST EARNED ON ACCOUNTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of
 law, the Foundation may hold funds granted to it pursuant to this title
 in interest-bearing accounts, prior to the disbursement of such funds for
 purposes specified in subsection (a), and may retain for such purposes
 any interest earned on such deposits without returning such interest to
 the Treasury of the United States and without further appropriation by
 the Congress.
SEC. 305. ELIGIBILITY OF THE FOUNDATION FOR GRANTS.
 (a) COMPLIANCE- Grants may be made to the Foundation pursuant to this
 title only if the Foundation agrees to comply with the requirements of this
 title. If the Foundation fails to comply with the requirements of this title,
 additional funds shall not be released until the Foundation brings itself
 into compliance with such requirements.
 (b) ACTIVITIES- The Foundation may use funds provided under this title
 only for activities and programs consistent with the purposes described in
 sections 302 and 304.
 (c) LIMITATION- The Foundation shall not issue any shares of stock or
 declare or pay any dividends.
 (d) COMPENSATION- No part of the funds available to the Foundation shall
 inure to the benefit of any board member, officer, or employee of the
 Foundation, except as salary or reasonable compensation for services or
 expenses. Compensation for board members shall be limited to reimbursement
 for reasonable costs of travel and expenses.
 (e) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST- No director, officer, or employee of the
 Foundation shall participate, directly or indirectly, in the consideration
 or determination of any question before the Foundation that affects his
 or her financial interests or the financial interests of any corporation,
 partnership, entity, or organization in which he or she has a direct or
 indirect financial interest.
 (f) POLITICAL ACTIVITY- The Foundation shall not engage in lobbying
 or propaganda for the purpose of influencing legislation, and shall not
 participate or intervene in any political campaign on behalf of any candidate
 for public office.
 (g) PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRIBUTIONS- During the second and third fiscal
 years in which funds are provided to the Foundation under this title,
 the Foundation shall raise from private sector donations an amount equal
 to not less than 25 percent of any funds provided to the Foundation under
 this title in such fiscal year. Funds shall be released to the Foundation
 during such fiscal year only to the extent that the matching requirement
 of the subsection has been met.
 (h) AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS- The accounts of the Foundation shall be audited
 annually by independent certified public accountants or independent licensed
 public accountants certified or licensed by a regulatory authority of a
 State or other political subdivision of the United States in accordance with
 generally accepted auditing standards. The reports, of each such independent
 audit shall be included in the annual report required by subsection (l).
 (i) AUDITS BY AGENCIES- In fiscal years in which the Foundation is receiving
 grants under this title, the accounts of the Foundation may be audited at
 any time by any agency designated by the President. The Foundation shall
 keep such records as will facilitate effective audits.
 (j) CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT- In fiscal years in which the Foundation is
 receiving grants under this title, the Foundation shall be subject to
 appropriate oversight procedures of Congress.
 (k) DUTIES- The Foundation shall ensure--
 (1) that recipients of financial assistance provided by the Foundation under
 this title, shall keep separate accounts with respect to such assistance
 and such records as may be reasonably necessary to disclose fully--
 (A) the amount and the disposition by such recipient of the assistance
 received from the Foundation;
 (B) the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which
 such assistance is given or used;
 (C) the amount and nature of that portion of the cost of the project or
 undertaking supplied by other sources; and
 (D) such other records as will facilitate effective audits; and
 (2) that the Foundation, or any of its duly authorized representatives
 including any agency designated by the President pursuant to subsection
 (i) shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any
 books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient that are pertinent
 to assistance provided from funds granted pursuant to this title.
 (l) ANNUAL REPORTS- The Foundation shall prepare and submit to the President
 and to the appropriate Committees of Congress an annual report, that
 shall include a comprehensive and detailed description of the Foundation's
 operations, activities, financial condition, and accomplishments for the
 fiscal year preceding the year in which the report is submitted. Such
 report shall be submitted not later than 3 months after the conclusion of
 any fiscal year in which the Foundation receives grants under this title.
TITLE IV--FOOD DONATIONS
SEC. 401. SENSE OF CONGRESS CONCERNING ENACTMENT OF GOOD SAMARITAN FOOD
DONATION ACT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- It is the sense of Congress that each of the 50 States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories
 and possessions of the United States should--
 (1) encourage the donation of apparently wholesome food or grocery products
 to nonprofit organizations for distribution to needy individuals; and
 (2) consider the model Good Samaritan Food Donation Act (provided in section
 402) as a means of encouraging the donation of food and grocery products.
 (b) DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES- The Archivist of the United States shall
 distribute a copy of this title to the chief executive officer of each of
 the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
 and the territories and possessions of the United States.
SEC. 402. MODEL GOOD SAMARITAN FOOD DONATION ACT.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Good Samaritan Food
 Donation Act'.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
 (1) APPARENTLY FIT GROCERY PRODUCT- The term `apparently fit grocery product'
 means a grocery product that meets all quality and labeling standards
 imposed by Federal, State, and local laws and regulations even though the
 product may not be readily marketable due to appearance, age, freshness,
 grade, size, surplus, or other conditions.
 (2) APPARENTLY WHOLESOME FOOD- The term `apparently wholesome food' means food
 that meets all quality and labeling standards imposed by Federal, State, and
 local laws and regulations even though the food may not be readily marketable
 due to appearance, age, freshness, grade, size, surplus, or other conditions.
 (3) DONATE- The term `donate' means to give without requiring anything
 of monetary value from the recipient, except that the term shall include
 giving by a nonprofit organization to another nonprofit organization,
 notwithstanding that the donor organization has charged a nominal fee to
 the donee organization, if the ultimate recipient or user is not required
 to give anything of monetary value.
 (4) FOOD- The term `food' means any raw, cooked, processed, or prepared
 edible substance, ice, beverage, or ingredient used or intended for use in
 whole or in part for human consumption.
 (5) GLEANER- The term `gleaner' means a person who harvests for free
 distribution to the needy, or for donation to a nonprofit organization
 for ultimate distribution to the needy, an agricultural crop that has been
 donated by the owner.
 (6) GROCERY PRODUCT- The term `grocery product' means a nonfood grocery
 product, including a disposable paper or plastic product, household cleaning
 product, laundry detergent, cleaning product, or miscellaneous household item.
 (7) GROSS NEGLIGENCE- The term `gross negligence' means voluntary and
 conscious conduct by a person with knowledge (at the time of the conduct)
 that the conduct is likely to be harmful to the health or well-being of
 another person.
 (8) INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT- The term `intentional misconduct' means conduct
 by a person with knowledge (at the time of the conduct) that the conduct
 is harmful to the health or well-being of another person.
 (9) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION- The term `nonprofit organization' means an
 incorporated or unincorporated entity that--
 (A) is operating for religious, charitable, or educational purposes; and
 (B) does not provide net earnings to, or operate in any other manner that
 inures to the benefit of, any officer, employee, or shareholder of the entity.
 (10) PERSON- The term `person' means an individual, corporation, partnership,
 organization, association, or governmental entity, including a retail
 grocer, wholesaler, hotel, motel, manufacturer, restaurant, caterer, farmer,
 and nonprofit food distributor or hospital. In the case of a corporation,
 partnership, organization, association, or governmental entity, the term
 includes an officer, director, partner, deacon, trustee, council member,
 or other elected or appointed individual responsible for the governance of
 the entity.
 (c) LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES FROM DONATED FOOD AND GROCERY PRODUCTS- A person
 or gleaner shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability arising from
 the nature, age, packaging, or condition of apparently wholesome food or
 an apparently fit grocery product that the person or gleaner donates in
 good faith to a nonprofit organization for ultimate distribution to needy
 individuals, except that this paragraph shall not apply to an injury to or
 death of an ultimate user or recipient of the food or grocery product that
 results from an act or omission of the donor constituting gross negligence
 or intentional misconduct.
 (d) COLLECTION OR GLEANING OF DONATIONS- A person who allows the collection
 or gleaning of donations on property owned or occupied by the person by
 gleaners, or paid or unpaid representatives of a nonprofit organization,
 for ultimate distribution to needy individuals shall not be subject to civil
 or criminal liability that arises due to the injury or death of the gleaner
 or representative, except that this paragraph shall not apply to an injury
 or death that results from an act or omission of the person constituting
 gross negligence or intentional misconduct.
 (e) PARTIAL COMPLIANCE- If some or all of the donated food and grocery
 products do not meet all quality and labeling standards imposed by Federal,
 State, and local laws and regulations, the person or gleaner who donates
 the food and grocery products shall not be subject to civil or criminal
 liability in accordance with this section if the nonprofit organization
 that receives the donated food or grocery products--
 (1) is informed by the donor of the distressed or defective condition of
 the donated food or grocery products;
 (2) agrees to recondition the donated food or grocery products to comply
 with all the quality and labeling standards prior to distribution; and
 (3) is knowledgeable of the standards to properly recondition the donated
 food or grocery product.
 (f) CONSTRUCTION- This section shall not be construed to create any liability.
SEC. 403. EFFECT OF SECTION 402.
 The model Good Samaritan Food Donation Act (provided in section 402) is
 intended only to serve as a model law for enactment by the States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories
 and possessions of the United States. The enactment of section 402 shall
 have no force or effect in law.
TITLE V--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 501. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) Title I-
 (1) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out title
 I, $56,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $95,500,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 and $105,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
 (2) EARMARKS- Of the aggregate amount appropriated under paragraph (1)
 for title I for each fiscal year--
 (A) $2,000,000 shall be made available to carry out subtitle G of such
 title in each such fiscal year;
 (B) not less than 30 percent shall be available to carry out subtitle B of
 such title in each such fiscal year;
 (C) not less than 30 percent shall be available to carry out subtitle C of
 such title in each such fiscal year; and
 (D) not less than 30 percent shall be available to carry out subtitle D of
 such title in each such fiscal year.
 (b) TITLE III- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out title
 III, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $7,500,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. AMTRAK WASTE DISPOSAL.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO RAIL PASSENGER SERVICE ACT- Section 306(i) of the Rail
 Passenger Service Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting `and other Federal, State and local laws' after `Public
 Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 264)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new sentences: `New intercity
 rail passenger cars manufactured on or after October 15, 1990, shall be built
 to provide for the discharge of human wastes only at servicing facilities. The
 Corporation shall retrofit those of its intercity rail passenger cars that
 were manufactured after May 1, 1971 and before October 15, 1990, with human
 waste disposal systems that provide for the discharge of human wastes only
 at servicing facilities. Subject to the appropriation of funds, (1) such
 retrofit program shall be completed within not later than October 15, 1996,
 and (2) all cars that do not provide for the discharge of human wastes only at
 servicing facilities shall be removed from service after such date. The United
 States district courts shall have original jurisdiction over any civil actions
 brought by the Corporation to enforce the exemption conferred hereunder and
 may grant equitable or declaratory relief as requested by the Corporation.'.
 (b) PLAN- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the National Railroad Passenger Corporation shall prepare and submit to
 the appropriate committees of Congress a plan that sets forth a schedule
 and projected cost for the completion of the retrofit program referred to
 in the amendment made by subsection (a) within the time limit set forth
 under such amendment.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 as if enacted on February 5, 1976.
 (d) ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS- Not later than 1 year after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, after appropriate
 notice and comment, and in consultation with the National Railroad Passenger
 Corporation, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,
 the Surgeon General, and State and local officials, shall promulgate such
 regulations as may be necessary to mitigate the impact of the discharge of
 human waste from railroad passenger cars on areas that may be considered
 environmentally sensitive.
 (e) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION CONCERNING DISPOSAL OF WASTE- Not later than 1
 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation
 shall promulgate regulations directing the National Railroad Passenger
 Corporation to, where appropriate, publish printed information, and make
 public address announcements, explaining its existing disposal technology
 and the retrofit and new equipment program, and encouraging passengers using
 existing equipment not to dispose of wastes in stations, railroad yards,
 or while the train is moving through environmentally sensitive areas.
SEC. 602. EXCHANGE PROGRAM WITH COUNTRIES IN TRANSITION FROM TOTALITARIANISM
TO DEMOCRACY.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF ACTIVITIES; GRANTS OR CONTRACTS FOR EXCHANGES WITH
 FOREIGN COUNTRIES- Pursuant to the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange
 Act of 1961 and using the authorities contained therein, the President
 is authorized, when the President considers that it would strengthen
 international cooperative relations, to provide, by grant, contract,
 or otherwise, for exchanges with countries that are in transition from
 totalitarianism to democracy, which include, but are not limited to Poland,
 Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, and Romania--
 (1) by financing studies, research, instruction, and related activities--
 (A) of or for American citizens and nationals in foreign countries; and
 (B) of or for citizens and nationals of foreign countries in American private
 businesses, trade associations, unions, chambers of commerce, and local,
 State, and Federal Government agencies, located in or outside the United
 States; and
 (2) by financing visits and interchanges between the United States and
 countries in transition from totalitarianism to democracy.
The program under this section shall be coordinated by the United States
Information Agency.
 (b) TRANSFER OF FUNDS- The President is authorized to transfer to the
 appropriations account of the United States Information Agency such sums as
 the President shall determine to be necessary out of the travel accounts of
 the departments and agencies of the United States, except for the Department
 of State and the United States Information Agency, as the President shall
 designate. Such transfers shall be subject to the approval of the Committee
 on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Appropriations of the Senate. In addition, the President is authorized
 to accept such gifts or cost-sharing arrangements as may be proffered to
 sustain the program under this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.