 
--S.1485--
S.1485
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To grant the consent of Congress to the Quad Cities Interstate Metropolitan
Authority Compact entered into between the States of Illinois and Iowa.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL CONSENT.
 The Congress hereby consents to the Quad Cities Interstate Metropolitan
 Authority Compact entered into between the States of Illinois and Iowa,
 which compact is substantially as follows:
Article 1--SHORT TITLE
 This compact may be cited as the `Quad Cities Interstate Metropolitan
 Authority Compact'.
Article 2--AUTHORIZATION
 The states of Illinois and Iowa authorize the creation of the quad cities
 interstate authority to include the territories of Scott county in the
 state of Iowa and Rock Island county in the state of Illinois.
Article 3--PURPOSES
 The purposes of the authority are to provide facilities and to foster
 cooperative efforts, all for the development and public benefit of its
 territory. This compact shall be liberally interpreted to carry out these
 purposes.
Article 4--CREATION
 The authority is created when the secretary of state of Iowa certifies to
 the secretary of state of Illinois that a majority of the electors of Scott
 county voting on the proposition voted to approve creation of the authority
 and the secretary of state of Illinois certifies to the secretary of state
 of Iowa that a majority of the electors of Rock Island county voting on
 the proposition voted to approve creation of the authority. A referendum
 approving creation of the authority must be held before January 1, 1993.
Article 5--BOARD MEMBERS
 The authority shall be governed by a board of not more than sixteen members,
 one-half of whom are residents of Rock Island county, Illinois, and one-half
 of whom are residents of Scott county, Iowa. Iowa members shall be chosen
 in the manner and for the terms fixed by the law of Iowa. Illinois members
 shall be chosen in the manner and for the terms fixed by the law of Illinois.
Article 6--BOARD OFFICERS
 The board shall elect annually from its members a chairperson, a vice
 chairperson, a secretary, and other officers it determines necessary.
Article 7--BOARD OPERATION
 The board shall adopt bylaws governing its meetings, fiscal year, election
 of officers, and other matters of procedure and operation.
Article 8--BOARD EXPENSES AND COMPENSATION
 (a) Members shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred while
 carrying out official duties.
 (b) Members shall be compensated as authorized by substantially identical
 laws of the states of Illinois and Iowa.
Article 9--EMPLOYEES
 (a) The board shall hire an executive director, a treasurer, and other
 employees it determines necessary and shall fix their qualifications,
 duties, compensation, and terms of employment.
 (b) The executive director, treasurer, and other employees shall have
 no pension benefits or rights of collective bargaining other than those
 authorized by substantially identical laws of the states of Iowa and Illinois.
Article 10--GENERAL POWERS
 The authority has the following general powers:
 (1) To sue and be sued.
 (2) To own, operate, manage, or lease facilities within the territory of the
 authority. `Facility' means an airport, port, wharf, dock, harbor, bridge,
 tunnel, terminal, industrial park, waste disposal system, mass transit system,
 parking area, road, recreational area, conservation area, or other project
 beneficial to the territory of the authority as authorized by substantially
 identical laws of the states of Iowa and Illinois, together with related or
 incidental fixtures, equipment, improvements, and real or personal property.
 (3) To fix and collect reasonable fees and charges for the use of its
 facilities.
 (4) To own or lease interests in real or personal property.
 (5) To accept and receive money, services, property, and other things
 of value.
 (6) To disburse funds for its lawful activities.
 (7) To enter into agreements with political subdivisions of the state of
 Illinois or Iowa or with the United States.
 (8) To pledge or mortgage its property.
 (9) To perform other functions necessary or incidental to its purposes
 and powers.
 (10) To exercise other powers conferred by substantially identical laws of
 the states of Iowa and Illinois.
Article 11--EMINENT DOMAIN
 (a) The authority has the power to acquire real property by eminent domain.
 (b) Property in the state of Iowa shall be acquired under the laws of the
 state of Iowa. Property in the state of Illinois shall be acquired under
 the laws of the state of Illinois.
Article 12--INDEBTEDNESS
 (a) The authority may incur indebtedness subject to debt limits imposed by
 substantially identical laws of the states of Illinois and Iowa.
 (b) Indebtedness of the authority shall not be secured by the full faith and
 credit or the tax revenues of the state of Iowa or Illinois, or a political
 subdivision of the state of Iowa or Illinois other than the authority or
 as otherwise authorized by substantially identical laws of the states of
 Iowa and Illinois.
 (c) Bonds shall be issued only under terms authorized by substantially
 identical laws of the states of Illinois and Iowa.
Article 13--TAXES
 (a) The authority shall have no independent power to tax.
 (b) A political subdivision of the state of Iowa or Illinois shall not impose
 taxes to fund the authority or any of the authority's projects except as
 specifically authorized by substantially identical laws of the states of
 Illinois and Iowa.
Article 14--REPORTS
 The authority shall report annually to the governors and legislatures of
 the states of Iowa and Illinois concerning its facilities, activities,
 and finances and may make recommendations for state legislation.
Article 15--PENALTIES
 The states of Illinois and Iowa may provide by substantially identical laws
 for the enforcement of the ordinances of the authority and for penalties
 for the violation of those ordinances.
Article 16--SUBSTANTIALLY IDENTICAL LAWS
 Substantially identical laws of the states of Iowa and Illinois which are
 in effect before the authority is created shall apply unless the laws are
 contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this compact. A question
 of whether the laws of the states of Iowa and Illinois are substantially
 identical may be determined and enforced by a federal district court.
Article 17--DISSOLUTION
 The authority may be dissolved by independent action of a political
 subdivision of the state of Iowa or the state of Iowa as authorized by law
 of the state of Iowa or by independent action of a political subdivision
 of the state of Illinois or the state of Illinois as authorized by law of
 the state of Illinois.
Article 18--SUBJECT TO LAWS AND CONSTITUTIONS
 This compact, the enabling laws of the states of Iowa and Illinois, and
 the authority are subject to the laws and Constitution of the United States
 and the Constitutions of the states of Illinois and Iowa.
Article 19--CONSENT OF CONGRESS
 The attorneys general of the states of Iowa and Illinois shall jointly seek
 the consent of the Congress of the United States to enter into or implement
 this compact if either of them believes the consent of the Congress of the
 United States is necessary.
Article 20--BINDING EFFECT
 This compact and substantially identical enabling laws are binding on the
 states of Illinois and Iowa to the full extent allowed without the consent
 of Congress. If the consent of Congress is necessary, this compact and
 substantially identical enabling laws are binding on the states of Iowa
 and Illinois to the full extent when consent is obtained.
Article 21--SIGNING
 This compact shall be signed in duplicate by the speakers of the houses of
 representatives of the states of Illinois and Iowa. One signed copy shall be
 filed with the secretary of state of Iowa and the other with the secretary
 of state of Illinois.
SEC. 2. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
 The right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is expressly reserved.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.