 
--S.1756--
S.1765
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the preservation and interpretation of sites associated
with Acadian
culture in the State of Maine.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this Act are to--
 (1) recognize an important contribution made to American culture and
 history by the Acadian immigrants from France who settled in Nova Scotia
 and, following expulsion by the British in 1755, resettled in various North
 American colonies, including the territory that eventually became the State
 of Maine;
 (2) assist local and State governments and other public and private entities
 in the State of Maine in interpreting the story of the State's Acadian
 settlers and their descendants as well as preserving Acadian music, arts,
 crafts, and folklore; and
 (3) assist in identifying, gathering, and preserving sites, historical data,
 artifacts, and objects associated with the Acadians in Maine for the benefit
 and education of the public.
SEC. 3. MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Maine Acadian
 Culture Preservation Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Commission'), which shall consist of 11 members appointed by the Secretary
 of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Secretary')
 not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, as follows:
 (1) One member, who shall serve as Chair, appointed from among recommendations
 submitted by the Governor of the State of Maine.
 (2) One member appointed from among recommendations submitted by the Speaker
 of the House of Representatives of the State of Maine.
 (3) One member appointed from among recommendations submitted by the
 President of the Senate of the State of Maine.
 (4) One member appointed from among recommendations submitted by the
 Chancellor of the University of Maine System.
 (5) Three members appointed from among recommendations submitted by State
 and local historic, cultural or historic preservation organizations.
 (6) Four members who are nationally recognized experts in fields of history,
 historic preservation, anthropology, and folklore, appointed by the Secretary.
 (b) TERMS- (1) Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms not
 to exceed 3 years.
 (2) The Secretary may stagger the terms of initial appointments to the
 Commission in order to assure continuity in operation.
 (3) Any member of the Commission may serve after the expiration of his or
 her term until a successor is appointed. A vacancy in the Commission shall
 be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (c) VOTING- The Commission shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a
 majority of its members.
 (d) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall receive no pay on account
 of their service on the Commission, but while away from their homes or regular
 places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members
 of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in
 lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently
 in Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5,
 United States Code.
 (e) EXEMPTION FROM CHARTER RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS- Section 14(b) of the Federal
 Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
 (f) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate 10 years from the date of
 enactment of this Act.
 (g) SUPPORT- The Director of the National Park Service is authorized to
 provide such staff support and technical services as may be necessary to
 carry out the functions of the Commission.
SEC. 4. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
 The Commission shall advise the Secretary with respect to--
 (1) the selection of sites for interpretation and preservation by means of
 cooperative agreements pursuant to section 6; and
 (2) the development and implementation of an interpretive program of the
 Acadian culture in the State of Maine pursuant to section 7(d).
SEC. 5. STUDY.
 Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
 prepare and transmit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of
 the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a comprehensive study of
 Acadian culture in Maine.
SEC. 6. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In furtherance of the purposes of this Act, the Secretary is
 authorized, after consultation with the Commission, to enter into cooperative
 agreements with the owners of properties of natural, historical, or cultural
 significance associated with the Acadian people in the State of Maine,
 pursuant to which agreements the Secretary may mark, interpret, restore,
 and provide technical assistance for the preservation of such properties and
 pursuant to which the Secretary may provide assistance, including management
 services and program implementation.
 (b) RIGHT OF ACCESS- Each cooperative agreement shall provide that the
 Secretary, through the National Park Service, shall have the right of access
 at all reasonable times to all public portions of the property covered by
 the agreement for the purpose of conducting visitors through such properties
 and interpreting them to the public.
 (c) ALTERATION OF PROPERTIES- Each cooperative agreement shall provide that
 no changes or alterations shall be made in the property covered by the
 agreement except by mutual agreement between the Secretary and the other
 party to the agreement.
SEC. 7. ACADIAN CULTURAL CENTER.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized, after completion of the study
 required by section 5, to establish a center for the preservation and
 interpretation of Acadian culture within the State of Maine.
 (b) ACQUISITION OF LAND- The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and
 interests therein, not to exceed 20 acres in total, by donation, purchase
 with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange and to develop, operate,
 and maintain facilities and to develop and operate programs at the center
 in furtherance of the purposes of this Act.
 (c) OPERATION- The Secretary may contract with public and private entities
 for the operation of the center in accordance with program standards approved
 by the Secretary.
 (d) INTERPRETIVE PROGRAM- In coordination with the Commission, the Secretary
 shall develop an interpretive program of the Acadian culture in the State
 of Maine.
 (e) STATUTORY AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall administer properties acquired
 and cooperative agreements entered into pursuant to this Act in accordance
 with the Act entitled `An Act to establish a National Park Service, and
 for other purposes', approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) and
 other statutory authority for the conservation and management of natural,
 historical, and cultural resources.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) COMMISSION- For the purposes of carrying out the functions of the
 Commission, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary, not to exceed $250,000.
 (b) OTHER PURPOSES- (1) To carry out the other purposes of this Act,
 there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary,
 subject to the limitations of paragraph (2).
 (2) With respect to cooperative agreements entered into pursuant to section 6,
 and the provisions dealing with the Acadian Cultural Center in subsections
 7 (a) through (c), the Secretary is authorized to expend not more than 50
 percent of the aggregate cost of performing those functions. The remainder
 of such cost shall be paid by non-Federal funds.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.