 
--S.1738--
S.1738
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To convey certain Oregon and California Railroad Grant Lands in Josephine
County,
Oregon, to the Rogue Community College District, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND.
 (a) CONVEYANCE- Subject to section 2, the Secretary of the Interior shall
 convey, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United
 States in and to land described in subsection (b) to the Rogue Community
 College District in Josephine County, Oregon (hereafter in this Act referred
 to as the `District').
 (b) LAND DESCRIPTION- The land referred to in subsection (a) is land in
 Josephine County, Oregon, described as Township 36 South, Range 6 West,
 W.M., Section 27, southwest  1/4 , northeast  1/4 .
SEC. 2. LIMITATIONS ON CONVEYANCE.
 The conveyance authorized by section 1(a) is subject to the following
 limitations:
 (a) ENCUMBRANCES- Such conveyance shall be subject to all encumbrances on
 the land existing as of the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) MINERAL RIGHTS- Such conveyance shall reserve to the United States all
 minerals in the land, including geothermal rights, together with the right
 to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals and geothermal resources.
 (c) RIGHT OF WAY FOR DITCHES AND CANALS- Such conveyance shall be subject to
 the proviso in the fourth undesignated paragraph under the caption entitled
 `United States Geological Survey' in the first section of the Act of August
 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 371, 391) (43 U.S.C. 945).
 (d) REVERSIONARY INTEREST- Such conveyance shall be subject to a reversionary
 interest in the land described in section 1(b) to be held by the United
 States. If such land ceases to be used for educational purposes, all right,
 title, and interest in and to such land shall revert to the United States
 and shall be identified, classified, and managed as Oregon and California
 Railroad Grant Lands.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.