 
--S.1792--
S.1792
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 to avoid penalizing producers
who planted a replacement crop on disaster-affected acreage, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REPLANTED ACREAGE.
 Section 110 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-82;
 7 U.S.C. 1421 note) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 110. NO DOUBLE PAYMENTS ON REPLANTED ACREAGE.
 `(a) REDUCTION OF DISASTER PAYMENTS- Effective only for producers on a
 farm who receive disaster payments under this subtitle for a crop of a
 commodity, the Secretary of Agriculture shall reduce such payments by an
 amount that reflects the net value (as determined under subsection (c))
 of any crop such producers plant for harvest in 1989 to replace the crop
 for which disaster payments are received.
 `(b) REPLACEMENT CROPS- For purposes of subsection (a), a crop shall be
 considered to be planted to replace the crop for which disaster payments are
 received if (because of loss or damage to the first crop due to damaging
 weather or related condition in 1988 or 1989) the second crop is planted
 on acreage on which the producers planted, or were prevented from planting,
 the first crop.
 `(c) Administration-
 `(1) DETERMINATION OF VALUE- In carrying out this section, the Secretary
 shall--
 `(A) only consider any production of the second crop that is in excess of
 50 percent of the county average yield for such crop;
 `(B) base the value of the excess second crop production on average market
 prices for the second crop during a representative period; and
 `(C) reduce the value of such excess second crop production by 25 percent.
 `(2) HISTORICAL CROPPING PATTERNS- In carrying out this section, the Secretary
 shall take into account the historical cropping patterns of producers.
 `(3) REDUCTION ONLY APPLICABLE TO REPLANTED ACREAGE- The reduction provided
 for in this subsection shall only be applied against payments due with
 respect to acreage that was replanted.
 `(4) FUTURE CROPPING PRACTICES- In carrying out this section, the Secretary
 may make adjustments to the crop acreage bases to reflect crop rotation
 practices because of the occurrence of a natural disaster or other similar
 condition beyond the control of the producer in determining a fair and
 equitable crop acreage base.'.
SEC. 2. MARKETING QUOTAS.
 (a) FARM POUNDAGE QUOTAS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 319 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938
 (7 U.S.C. 1314e) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (d)--
 (i) by striking `October 1, 1982' and inserting `for the previous marketing
 year'; and
 (ii) by striking `1978 crop year' and inserting `immediately preceding 5
 crop years'; and
 (B) in the second sentence of subsection (e), by striking `marketing year
 beginning October 1, 1982' each place it appears and inserting `previous
 marketing year'.
 (2) ACREAGE--POUNDAGE QUOTAS- Section 317(a)(6)(B) of such Act
 (7 U.S.C. 1314c(a)(6)(B)) is amended by striking `years 1960 to 1964,
 inclusive, may be used, as determined by the Secretary' and inserting
 `immediately preceding 5 crop years shall be used by the Secretary'.
 (b) LEASE OR SALE OF ACREAGE ALLOTMENTS- Section 316(c) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 1314b(c)) is amended by striking all after the first sentence and
 inserting `The transfer shall be approved acre for acre.'.
SEC. 3. COST REDUCTION OPTIONS.
 Section 1009(d) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308a(d))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting after `nonrecourse loan program' the following `(including
 the program authorized by section 110 of the Agricultural Act of 1949
 (7 U.S.C. 1445e))';
 (2) by striking `savings' and inserting `benefits'; and
 (3) by striking `forfeited commodity,' and all that follows through the
 period at the end of the sentence and inserting `forfeited commodity.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.