 
--S.1877--
S.1877
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To improve the operational efficiency of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship
Foundation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
 Section 803(d) of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act (20
 U.S.C. 4502(d)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), members of the Board shall serve without
 pay.
 `(2) Members of the Board and the President, Executive Secretary, and other
 personnel of the Foundation shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel,
 subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance
 of their duties at rates applicable to judges of the United States under
 section 456(a) of title 28, United States Code.'.
SEC. 2. PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF FOUNDATION.
 Section 813 of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act (20 U.S.C. 4512)
 is amended to read as follows:
`PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF FOUNDATION
 `SEC. 813. (a)(1) The Board may appoint a President of the Foundation to
 serve full-time or part-time and for such a term as the Board shall determine.
 `(2) The President shall carry out such of the functions and duties of
 the Foundation as the Board may determine, subject to the supervision and
 direction of the Board.
 `(3) The President shall be compensated at a rate to be determined by the
 Board without regard to subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United
 States Code, not to exceed the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule
 under section 5314 of that title.
 `(4) Sections 5532, 8344, and 8468 of title 5, United States Code, shall
 not apply to a person while such person is serving as President of the
 Foundation. The first sentence of this paragraph shall not, in the case of
 any individual, apply longer than December 31, 1990.
 (b)(1) There shall be an Executive Secretary of the Foundation who shall
 be appointed by the Board.
 `(2) The Executive Secretary shall be the chief operating officer of the
 Foundation and shall carry out the functions of the Foundation subject to
 the supervision and direction of the Board or the President, as determined
 by the Board.
 `(3) The Executive Secretary shall be compensated at the rate specified
 for employees placed in grade GS-18 of the General Schedule set forth in
 section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.'.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 Section 814 of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act (20 U.S.C. 4513)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a) by--
 (A) amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(1) to appoint and fix the compensation of such personnel as may be
 necessary to carry out this Act, without regard to the provisions of title
 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service,
 but at General Schedule pay rates not in excess of the maximum rate for
 grade GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of that title;';
 (B) amending paragraph (8) to read as follows:
 `(8) to rent office space in the District of Columbia or its environs;';
 (C) striking `and' at the end of paragraph (9);
 (D) striking `(10)' and inserting `(11)'; and
 (E) inserting immediately following paragraph (9) the following new paragraph:
 `(10) to expend not more than 5 percent of its annual operating budget
 to pay the costs of fundraising activities, including public and private
 gatherings; and'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(c) On request of the Chairman of the Foundation, the head of a Federal
 agency may detail personnel of the agency to the Foundation to assist the
 Foundation in carrying out this Act. Details under this subsection shall be
 without reimbursement by the Foundation to the agency from which personnel
 are detailed.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.