 
--S.1824--
S.1824
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Education of the Handicapped Act to revise and extend the programs
established in parts C through G of such Act, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCE.
 (a) Short Title- This Act may be cited as the `Education of the Handicapped
 Act Amendments of 1990'.
 (b) REFERENCE- Except as otherwise provided in section 901, whenever in this
 Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal
 of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be
 made to a section or other provision of the Education of the Handicapped Act.
TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
 (a) HANDICAPPED CHILDREN- Section 602(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(1) The term `children with disabilities' means children--
 `(A) with mental retardation, hearing impairments including deafness,
 speech or language impairments, visual impairments including blindness,
 serious emotional disturbance, orthopedic impairments, autism, traumatic
 brain injury, other health impairments, or specific learning disabilities; and
 `(B) who, by reason thereof need special education and related services.'.
 (b) SPECIAL EDUCATION- Section 602(a)(16) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(16)) is amended
 by striking `including classroom instruction' and all that follows and
 inserting the following: `including--
 `(A) instruction conducted in the classroom, in the home, in hospitals and
 institutions, and in other settings; and
 `(B) instruction in physical education.'.
 (c) RELATED SERVICES- Section 602(a)(17) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(17)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `recreation,' and inserting `recreation, including therapeutic
 recreation and social work services,'; and
 (2) by inserting `, including rehabilitation counseling,' after `counseling
 services,'.
 (d) TRANSITION SERVICES- Section 602(a) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)) is amended
 by redesignating paragraphs (19) through (23) as paragraphs (20) through
 (24), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (18) the following
 new paragraph:
 `(19) The term `transition services' means a coordinated set of activities
 for a student, designed within an outcome-oriented process, which promotes
 movement from school to post-school activities, including post-secondary
 education, vocational training, integrated employment (including supported
 employment), continuing and adult education, adult services, independent
 living, or community participation. The coordinated set of activities
 shall be based upon the individual student's needs, taking into account
 the student's preferences and interests, and shall include instruction,
 community experiences, the development of employment and other post-school
 adult living objectives, and, when appropriate, acquisition of daily living
 skills and functional vocational evaluation.'.
 (e) INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATION PROGRAM- Section 602(a)(20), as redesignated
 by subsection (d) of this section, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (E) and
 (F), respectively, and by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following
 new subparagraph:
 `(D) a statement of the needed transition services for students beginning no
 later than age 16 and annually thereafter (and, when determined appropriate
 for the individual, beginning at age 14 or younger), including, when
 appropriate, a statement of the interagency reponsibilities or linkages
 (or both) before the student leaves the school setting,', and
 (2) by inserting after subparagraph (F) (as so redesignated) the following:
 `In the case where a participating agency, other than the educational
 agency, fails to provide agreed upon services, the educational agency
 shall reconvene the IEP team to identify alternative strategies to meet
 the transition objectives.'.
 (f) PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NONPROFIT AGENCY OR ORGANIZATION- Section 602(a)(24)(A),
 as redesignated by subsection (d) of this section, is amended by inserting
 before the period the following: `and the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the
 Department of the Interior (when acting on behalf of schools operated by
 the Bureau for children and students on Indian reservations) and tribally
 controlled schools funded by the Department of the Interior'.
 (g) ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY DEVICE- Section 602(a), as amended by subsection (d)
 of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(25) The term `assistive technology device' means any item, piece of
 equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially off the shelf,
 modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve
 functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities.'.
 (h) ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY SERVICE- Section 602(a), as amended by subsection (g)
 of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(26) The term `assistive technology service' means any service that directly
 assists an individual with a disability in the selection, acquisition,
 or use of an assistive technology device. Such term includes--
 `(A) the evaluation of the needs of an individual with a disability,
 including a functional evaluation of the individual in the individual's
 customary environment;
 `(B) purchasing, leasing, or otherwise providing for the acquisition of
 assistive technology devices by individuals with disabilities;
 `(C) selecting, designing, fitting, customizing, adapting, applying,
 maintaining, repairing, or replacing of assistive technology devices;
 `(D) coordinating and using other therapies, interventions, or services
 with assistive technology devices, such as those associated with existing
 education and rehabilitation plans and programs;
 `(E) training or technical assistance for an individual with disabilities,
 or, where appropriate, the family of an individual with disabilities; and
 `(F) training or technical assistance for professionals (including individuals
 providing education and rehabilitation services), employers, or other
 individuals who provide services to, employ, or are otherwise substantially
 involved in the major life functions of individuals with disabilities.'.
 (i) UNDERREPRESENTED- Section 602(a), as amended by subsection (h) of this
 section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(27) The term `underrepresented' means populations such as minorities,
 the poor, the limited English proficient, and individuals with disabilities.'.
SEC. 102. NOTICE OF INQUIRY.
 (a) PUBLICATION- Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment
 of the Education of the Handicapped Act Amendments of 1990, the Secretary
 shall publish a Notice of Inquiry in the Federal Register for the purpose
 of soliciting public comments regarding the appropriate components of an
 operational definition under such Act for the term `attention deficit
 disorder' (hereinafter referred to in this section as the `disorder')
 in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
 (b) PUBLIC COMMENT-
 (1) The Notice of Inquiry published under subsection (a) shall provide for
 a 120-day period for public comment.
 (2) The Notice of Inquiry shall request comments concerning the following
 issues:
 (A) How should the disorder be described operationally for purposes of
 qualifying a child for special education and related services under part
 B of the Education of the Handicapped Act.
 (B) What criteria should be included in the definition to qualify children
 with the disorder whose disability is comparable in severity to other children
 with disabilities currently determined to be eligible for special education
 and related services under part B of the Education of the Handicapped Act.
 (C) What specific manifestations of the disorder, if any, should be included
 in the definition.
 (D) Whether the definition should include references to characteristics or
 circumstances that produce transient inattentive behaviors that, in and
 of themselves, would not make a child eligible for special education and
 related services under the definition of the disorder.
 (E) Whether the definition should address the concurrence of this disorder
 with other disabilities such as specific learning disabilities or serious
 emotional disturbance, and if so addressed, the manner in which such is to
 be accomplished.
 (F) Whether guidelines should be provided to State and local educational
 agencies regarding their obligation to conduct an evaluation of a child
 suspected of having this disorder, and a description of such guidelines.
 (G) Who should be authorized to conduct an assessment of a child having
 or suspected of having the disorder and whether the assessment should be
 conducted by more than one individual (such as a teacher and a psychologist).
 (H) What provisions should be included in the definition and what additional
 steps, if any, not currently required by the regulations implementing part
 B of the Education of the Handicapped Act, should be included to ensure
 that racial, ethnic, and linguistic minorities are not misclassified under
 this definition.
 (c) REPORT TO COMMITTEES- Not later than 30 days after the close of
 the comment period referred to in subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall
 transmit the public comments received in response to the Notice of Inquiry
 in a usable form, accompanied by a document summarizing such comments, to
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee
 on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 103. ABROGATION OF STATE SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY.
 Part A (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 603
 the following new section:
`ABROGATION OF STATE SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY
 `SEC. 604. (a) A State shall not be immune under the eleventh amendment
 to the Constitution of the United States from suit in Federal court for a
 violation of this Act.
 `(b) In a suit against a State for a violation of this Act, remedies
 (including remedies both at law and in equity) are available for such a
 violation to the same extent as such remedies are available for such a
 violation in the suit against any public entity other than a State.
 `(c) The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect with
 respect to violations that occur in whole or part after the date of the
 enactment of the Education of the Handicapped Act Amendments of 1990.'.
SEC. 104. REPORTS, EVALUATIONS, FINDINGS, AND OTHER PROVISIONS GENERALLY
APPLICABLE TO PARTS C THROUGH G.
 Part A (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTS C THROUGH G AND SECTION 618
 `SEC. 610. (a) The Secretary shall maintain a process for developing a
 program plan for the implementation of each of the programs authorized
 under section 618 and parts C through G. The plan shall include program
 goals, objectives, strategies, and priorities. In conducting the process,
 the Secretary shall involve individuals with disabilities, parents,
 professionals, and representatives of State and local educational agencies,
 private schools, institutions of higher education, and national organizations
 who have interest and expertise in the program.
 `(b) In awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under parts
 C through G, the Secretary, where appropriate, shall require applicants to
 demonstrate how they will address, in whole or in part, the needs of infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities from minority backgrounds.
 `(c) In awarding grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under parts
 C through G the Secretary, where appropriate, may require applicants to
 address the various transitions that a child with a disability may face
 throughout such child's years in school, including--
 `(1) the transition from medical care to special education for those
 children with disabilities, including chronic health impairments, who may
 require individualized health-related services to enable such children to
 participate in, or benefit from, special education;
 `(2) the transition between residential placement and community-based
 special education services; and
 `(3) the transition between a separate educational placement and the regular
 classroom setting.
 `(d) The Secretary shall conduct directly, or by contract or cooperative
 agreement with appropriate entities, independent evaluations of the programs
 authorized under section 618 and under parts C through G, and may for such
 purpose use funds appropriated to carry out such provisions. The findings of
 the evaluators shall be utilized in the planning process under subsection
 (a) for the purpose of improving the programs. The evaluations shall
 determine the degree to which the program is being conducted consistent
 with the program plan and meeting its goals and objectives. The Secretary
 shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress the results of
 the evaluations required by this subsection.
 `(e) The Secretary shall report on the program plans required in subsection
 (a) and findings from the evaluations under subsection (d) in the annual
 report to the Congress required under section 618.
 `(f) The Secretary shall develop effective procedures for acquiring and
 disseminating information derived from programs and projects funded under
 parts C through G, as well as information generated from studies conducted
 and data collected under section 618.
 `(g) The Secretary shall, where appropriate, require recipients of all
 grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under parts C through G to
 prepare reports describing their procedures, findings, and other relevant
 information in a form that will maximize the dissemination and use of such
 procedures, findings, and information. The Secretary shall require their
 delivery, as appropriate, to the Regional and Federal Resource Centers,
 the Clearinghouses, and the Technical Assistance to Parents Programs (TAPP)
 assisted under parts C and D, as well as the National Diffusion Network,
 the ERIC Clearinghouse on the Handicapped and Gifted, and the Child and
 Adolescent Service Systems Program (CASSP) under the National Institute
 of Mental Health, appropriate parent and professional organizations,
 organizations representing individuals with disabilities, and such other
 networks as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate.
 `(h)(1) The Secretary shall convene, in accordance with paragraph (2), panels
 of experts who are competent, by virtue of their training or experience,
 to evaluate proposals under section 618 and parts C through G.
 `(2) Panels under paragraph (1) shall be composed of individuals with
 disabilities, parents of such individuals, individuals from the fields of
 special education, related services, and other relevant disciplines.
 `(3) The Secretary shall convene panels under paragraph (1) for any
 application that includes a total funding request exceeding $60,000 and may
 convene or otherwise appoint panels for applications that include funding
 requests that are less than such amount.
 `(4) Panels under paragraph (1) shall include a majority of non-Federal
 members. Such non-Federal members shall be provided travel and per diem not
 to exceed the rate provided to other educational consultants used by the
 Department of Education and shall be provided consultant fees at such a rate.
 `(5) The Secretary may use funds available under section 618 and parts C
 through G to pay expenses and fees of non-Federal members of the panels.
 `(i) The Secretary shall conduct at least 1 site visit for each grant,
 contract, and cooperative agreement receiving $300,000 or more annually
 under parts C through G.
 `(j)(1) With respect to the discretionary programs authorized by parts C
 through G, the Congress finds as follows:
 `(A)(i) The Federal Government must be responsive to the growing needs
 of an increasingly more diverse society. A more equitable allocation of
 resources is essential for the Federal Government to meet its responsibility
 to provide an equal educational opportunity for all individuals.
 `(ii) America's racial profile is rapidly changing. While the rate of increase
 for white Americans is 3.2 percent, the rate of increase for racial and
 ethnic minorities is much higher: 38.6 percent for Hispanics, 14.6 percent
 for African-Americans, and 40.1 percent for Asians and other ethnic groups.
 `(iii) By the year 2000, this Nation will have 260,000,000 people,
 one of every three of whom will be either African-American, Hispanic,
 or Asian-American.
 `(iv) Taken together as a group, it is a more frequent phenomenon for
 minorities to comprise the majority of public school students. Large city
 school populations are overwhelmingly minority, e.g., Miami, 71 percent;
 Philadelphia, 73 percent; Baltimore, 80 percent.
 `(v) Recruitment efforts within special education at the level of preservice,
 continuing education, and practice must focus on bringing larger numbers of
 minorities into the profession in order to provide appropriate practitioner
 knowledge, role models, and sufficient manpower to address the clearly
 changing demography of special education.
 `(vi) The limited English proficient population is the fastest growing in
 our Nation, and the growth is occurring in many parts of our Nation. In
 the Nation's 2 largest school districts, limited-English students make up
 almost half of all students initially entering school at the kindergarten
 level. Studies have documented apparent discrepancies in the levels of
 referral and placement of limited-English proficient children in special
 education. The Department of Education has found that services provided to
 limited-English proficient students often do not respond primarily to the
 pupil's academic needs. These trends pose special challenges for special
 education in the referral, assessment, and services for our Nation's students
 from non-English language backgrounds.
 `(B)(i) Greater efforts are needed to prevent the intensification of problems
 connected with mislabeling and high dropout rates among minority children
 with disabilities.
 `(ii) More minority children continue to be served in special education
 than would be expected from the percentage of minority students in the
 general school population.
 `(iii) Poor African-American children are 3.5 times more likely to be
 identified by their teacher as mentally retarded than their white counterpart.
 `(iv) Although African-Americans represent 12 percent of elementary and
 secondary enrollments, they constitute 28 percent of total enrollments in
 special education.
 `(v) The drop out rate is 68 percent higher for minorities than for whites.
 `(vi) More than 50 percent of minority students in large cities drop out
 of school.
 `(C)(i) The opportunity for full participation in awards for grants and
 contracts; boards of organizations receiving funds under this Act; and
 peer review panels; and training of professionals in the area of special
 education by minority individuals, organizations, and historically Black
 colleges and universities is essential if we are to obtain greater success
 in the education of minority children with disabilities.
 `(ii) In 1989, of the 661,000 college and university professors, 4.6
 percent were African-American and 3.1 percent were Hispanic. Of the
 3,600,000 teachers, prekindergarten through high school, 9.4 percent were
 African-American and 3.9 percent were Hispanic.
 `(iii) Students from minority groups comprise more than 50 percent of K-12
 public school enrollment in seven States yet minority enrollment in teacher
 training programs is less than 15 percent in all but six States.
 `(iv) As the number of African-American and Hispanic students in special
 education increases, the number of minority teachers and related service
 personnel produced in our colleges and universities continues to decrease.
 `(v) Ten years ago, 12.5 percent of the United States teaching force
 in public elementary and secondary schools were members of a minority
 group. Minorities comprised 21.3 percent of the national population at that
 time and were clearly underrepresented then among employed teachers. Today,
 the elementary and secondary teaching force is 3 to 5 percent minority,
 while one-third of the students in public schools are minority children.
 `(vi) As recently as 1984-85, Historically Black Colleges and Universities
 (HBCUs) supplied nearly half of the African-American teachers in the
 Nation. However, in 1988, HBCUs received only 2 percent of the discretionary
 funds for special education and related services personnel training.
 `(vii) While African-American students constitute 28 percent of total
 enrollment in special education, only 11.2 percent of individuals enrolled
 in preservice training programs for special education are African-American.
 `(viii) In 1986-87, of the degrees conferred in education at the B.A., M.A.,
 and Ph.D levels, only 6, 8, and 8 percent, respectively, were awarded to
 African-American or Hispanic students.
 `(D) Minorities and underserved persons are socially disadvantaged because of
 the lack of opportunities in training and educational programs, undergirded
 by the practices in the private sector that impede their full participation
 in the mainstream of society.
 `(2) The Congress further finds that these conditions can be greatly improved
 by providing opportunities for the full participation of minorities through
 the implementation of the following recommendations:
 `(A) Implementation of a policy to mobilize the Nation's resources to
 prepare minorities for careers in special education and related services.
 `(B) This policy should focus on--
 `(i) the recruitment of minorities into teaching; and
 `(ii) financially assisting HBCUs and other institutions of higher education
 (whose minority student enrollment is at least 25 percent) to prepare
 students for special education and related service careers.
 `(C)(i) The Secretary shall develop a plan for providing outreach services to
 the entities described in clause (ii) in order to increase the participation
 of such entities in competitions for grants, contracts, and cooperative
 agreements under any of parts C through G.
 `(ii) The entities referred to in clause (i) are--
 `(I) Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other institutions
 of higher education whose minority student enrollment is at least 25 percent;
 `(II) eligible institutions as defined in section 312 of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965;
 `(III) nonprofit and for-profit agencies at least 51 percent owned or
 controlled by one or more minority individuals; and
 `(IV) underrepresented populations.
 `(iii) For the purpose of implementing the plan required in clause (i),
 the Secretary shall, for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1994,
 expend 1 percent of the funds appropriated for the fiscal year involved
 for carrying out parts C through G.
 `(3) The Secretary shall exercise his/her utmost authority, resourcefulness,
 and diligence to meet the requirements of this subsection.
 `(4) Not later than January 31 of each year, starting with fiscal year 1991,
 the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report on the progress toward
 meeting the goals of this subsection during the preceding fiscal year. The
 report shall include--
 `(i) a full explanation of any progress toward meeting the goals of this
 subsection; and
 `(ii) a plan to meet the goals, if necessary.'.
TITLE II--ASSISTANCE FOR EDUCATION OF ALL HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 201. SETTLEMENTS AND ALLOCATIONS.
 Section 611(f) (20 U.S.C. 1411(f)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence, by inserting `(A)' after
 `reservations' and by inserting before the period the following: `, and
 (B) for whom services were provided through contract with an Indian tribe
 or organization prior to fiscal year 1989'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) Before March 1, 1991, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit
 to the appropriate Committees of the Congress a plan for the provision
 of services under this Act to all children with disabilities residing on
 reservations, whether or not such reservation is served by a B.I.A. funded
 school. Such plan shall provide for the coordination of services benefiting
 these children from whatever source, including Tribes, the State in which
 the child resides and entities of such State, the Indian Health Service,
 other B.I.A. divisions and other Federal agencies. In developing such a plan,
 the Secretary shall consult with all interested and involved parties. Such a
 plan may not be based upon a blanket assumption or interpretation that denies
 Federal or Interior responsibility for any group or class of children or
 settings, but shall be based upon the needs of the children and the system
 best suited for meeting those needs, and may involve the establishment of
 service agreements between the B.I.A. and other entities.'.
SEC. 202. STATE PLANS.
 Section 613(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) describe, consistent with the purposes of this Act, a comprehensive
 system of personnel development that shall include--
 `(A) a description of the procedures and activities the State will undertake
 to ensure an adequate supply of qualified special education and related
 services personnel, including--
 `(i) the development and maintenance of a system for determining, on an
 annual basis--
 `(I) the number and type of personnel, including leadership personnel, that
 are employed in the provision of special education and related services,
 by area of specialization, including the number of such personnel who are
 employed on an emergency, provisional, or other basis, who do not hold
 appropriate State certification or licensure; and
 `(II) the number and type of personnel, including leadership personnel,
 needed, and a projection of the numbers of such personnel that will be needed
 in five years, based on projections of individuals to be served, retirement
 and other leaving of personnel from the field, and other relevant factors;
 `(ii) the development and maintenance of a system for determining, on an
 annual basis, the institutions of higher education within the State that
 are preparing special education and related services personnel, including
 leadership personnel, by area of specialization, including--
 `(I) the numbers of students enrolled in such programs, and
 `(II) the number who graduated with certification or licensure, or with
 credentials to qualify for certification or licensure, during the past
 year; and
 `(iii) the development, updating, and implementation of a plan that--
 `(I) will address current and projected special education and related
 services personnel needs, including the need for leadership personnel; and
 `(II) coordinates and facilitates efforts among State and local educational
 agencies, institutions of higher education, and professional associations
 to recruit, prepare, and retain qualified personnel, including personnel
 from minority backgrounds, and personnel with disabilities; and
 `(B) a description of the procedures and activities the State will
 undertake to ensure that all personnel necessary to carry out this part
 are appropriately and adequately prepared, including--
 `(i) a system for the continuing education of regular and special education
 and related services personnel;
 `(ii) procedures for acquiring and disseminating to teachers, administrators,
 and related services personnel significant knowledge derived from education
 research and other sources; and
 `(iii) procedures for adopting, where appropriate, promising practices,
 materials, and technology.'.
SEC. 203. EVALUATION.
 Section 618 is amended to read as follows:
`EVALUATION AND PROGRAM INFORMATION
 `SEC. 618. (a) The Secretary shall, directly or by grant, contract, or
 cooperative agreement, collect data and conduct studies, investigations,
 analyses, and evaluations--
 `(1) to assess progress in the implementation of this Act;
 `(2) to assess the impact and effectiveness of State and local efforts,
 and efforts by the Secretary of the Interior, to provide--
 `(A) free appropriate public education to children and youth with
 disabilities; and
 `(B) early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities;
 and
 `(3) to provide--
 `(A) Congress with information relevant to policymaking; and
 `(B) State, local, and Federal agencies, including the Department of the
 Interior, with information relevant to program management, administration,
 delivery, and effectiveness with respect to such education and early
 intervention services.
 `(b)(1) In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary, on at least an annual
 basis (except as provided in subparagraph (E)), shall obtain data concerning
 programs and projects assisted under this Act and under other Federal laws
 relating to infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities, and
 such additional information, from State and local educational agencies,
 the Secretary of the Interior, and other appropriate sources, including
 designated lead agencies under part H (except that during fiscal year 1992
 such entities may not under this subsection be required to provide data
 regarding traumatic brain injury or autism), including--
 `(A) the number of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities
 in each State receiving a free appropriate public education or early
 intervention services--
 `(i) in age groups 0-2 and 3-5, and
 `(ii) in age groups 6-11, 12-17, and 18-21, by disability category;
 `(B) the number of children and youth with disabilities in each State,
 by disability category, who--
 (i) are participating in regular educational programs (consistent with the
 requirements of section 612(5)(B) and 614(a)(1)(C)(iv));
 (ii) are in separate classes, separate schools or facilities, or public or
 private residential facilities; or
 (iii) have been otherwise removed from the regular education environment;
 `(C) the number of children and youth with disabilities exiting the
 educational system each year through program completion or otherwise,
 by disability category, for each year of age from age 14 through 21;
 `(D) the number and type of personnel that are employed in the provision of--
 `(i) special education and related services to children and youth with
 disabilities, by disability category served; and
 `(ii) early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities;
 and
 `(E) at least every three years, using the data collection method the
 Secretary finds most appropriate, a description of the services expected
 to be needed, by disability category, for youth with disabilities in age
 groups 12-17 and 18-21 who have left the educational system.
 `(2) Beginning with fiscal year 1993, the Secretary shall obtain and report
 data from the States under section 613(a)(3)(A), including data addressing
 current and projected special education and related services needs, and data
 on the number of personnel who are employed on an emergency, provisional,
 or other basis, who do not hold appropriate State certification or licensure,
 and other data for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this subsection
 pertaining to special education and related services personnel.
 `(3) The Secretary shall provide, directly or by grant, contract, or
 cooperative agreement, technical assistance to State agencies providing the
 data described in paragraphs (1) and (2) to achieve accurate and comparable
 information.
 `(c)(1) The Secretary shall make grants to, or enter into contracts
 or cooperative agreements with, State or local educational agencies,
 institutions of higher education, public agencies, and private nonprofit
 organizations, and, when necessary because of the unique nature of the study,
 private-for-profit organizations, for the purpose of conducting studies,
 analyses, syntheses, and investigations for improving program management,
 administration, delivery, and effectiveness necessary to provide full
 educational opportunities and early interventions for all children with
 disabilities from birth through age 21. Such studies and investigations shall
 gather information necessary for program and system improvements including--
 `(A) developing effective, appropriate criteria and procedures to identify,
 evaluate, and serve infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities
 from minority backgrounds for purposes of program eligibility, program
 planning, delivery of services, program placement, and parental involvement;
 `(B) planning and developing effective early intervention services, special
 education, and related services to meet the complex and changing needs of
 infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities;
 `(C) developing and implementing a comprehensive system of personnel
 development needed to provide qualified personnel in sufficient number to
 deliver special education, related services, and early intervention services;
 `(D) developing the capacity to implement practices having the potential
 to integrate children with disabilities, to the maximum extent appropriate,
 with children who are not disabled;
 `(E) effectively allocating and using human and fiscal resources for
 providing early intervention, special education, and related services;
 `(F) strengthening programs and services to improve the progress of children
 and youth with disabilities while in special education, and to effect a
 successful transition when such children and youth leave special education;
 `(G) achieving interagency coordination to maximize resource utilization
 and continuity in services provided to infants, toddlers, children, and
 youth with disabilities;
 `(H) strengthening parent-school communication and coordination to improve
 the effectiveness of planning and delivery of interventions and instruction,
 thereby enhancing development and educational progress; and
 `(I) the identification of environmental, organizational, resource, and
 other conditions necessary for effective professional practice.
 `(2)(A) The studies and investigations authorized under this subsection
 may be conducted through surveys, interviews, case studies, program
 implementation studies, secondary data analyses and syntheses, and other
 appropriate methodologies.
 `(B) The studies and investigations conducted under this subsection shall
 address the information needs of State and local educational agencies for
 improving program management, administration, delivery, and effectiveness.
 `(3) The Secretary shall develop and implement a process for the on-going
 identification of national program information needed for improving the
 management, administration, delivery, and effectiveness of programs and
 services provided under this Act. The process shall identify implementation
 issues, desired improvements, and information needed by State and local
 agencies to achieve such improvements, and shall be conducted in cooperation
 with State educational agencies that can ensure broad-based statewide
 input from each cooperating State. The Secretary shall publish for public
 comment in the Federal Register every 3 years a program information plan
 describing such information needs. Such program information plan shall be
 used to determine the priorities for, and activities carried out under,
 this subsection to produce, organize, and increase utilization of program
 information. Such program information plan shall be included in the annual
 report submitted under section 618 every 3 years.
 `(4) In providing funds under this subsection, the Secretary shall require
 recipients to prepare their procedures, findings, and other relevant
 information in a form that will maximize their dissemination and use,
 especially through dissemination networks and mechanisms authorized by this
 Act, and in a form for inclusion in the annual report to Congress authorized
 under subsection (g).
 `(d)(1) The Secretary shall enter into cooperative agreements with State
 educational agencies and other State agencies to carry out studies to assess
 the impact and effectiveness of programs, policies, and procedures assisted
 under this Act.
 `(2) The agreements referred to in paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) provide for the payment of not more than 60 percent of the total cost
 of studies conducted by a participating State agency to assess the impact
 and effectiveness of this Act; and
 `(B) be developed in consultation with the State Advisory Panel established
 under section 613(a)(12), local educational agencies, and others involved in,
 or concerned with, the education of children and youth with disabilities
 and the provision of early intervention services to infants and toddlers
 with disabilities.
 `(3) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to participating
 State agencies in the implementation of the study design, analysis, and
 reporting procedures.
 `(e)(1) The Secretary shall by grant, contract, or cooperative agreement,
 provide for special studies to assess progress in the implementation of this
 Act, and to assess the impact and effectiveness of State and local efforts and
 efforts by the Secretary of the Interior to provide free appropriate public
 education to children and youth with disabilities, and early intervention
 services to infants and toddlers with disabilities. Reports from such
 studies shall include recommendations for improving programs and services
 to such individuals. The Secretary shall, beginning in fiscal year 1993
 and for every third year thereafter, submit to the appropriate committees
 of each House of the Congress and publish in the Federal Register proposed
 priorities for review and comment.
 `(2) In selecting priorities for fiscal years 1991 through 1994, the
 Secretary may give first consideration to--
 `(A) completing a longitudinal study of a sample of students with
 disabilities, examining--
 `(i) the full range of disabling conditions;
 `(ii) the educational progress of students with disabilities while in
 special education; and
 `(iii) the occupational, educational, and independent living status of
 students with disabilities after graduating from secondary school or
 otherwise leaving special education.
 `(B) conducting pursuant to this subsection a nationally representative
 study focusing on the types, number, and intensity of related services
 provided to children with disabilities by disability category.
 `(C) conducting pursuant to this subsection a study that examines the degree
 of disparity among States with regard to the placement in various educational
 settings of children and youth with similar disabilities, especially those
 with mental retardation, and, to the extent that such disparity exists, the
 factors that lead such children and youth to be educated in significantly
 different educational settings.
 `(D) conducting pursuant to this subsection a study that examines the factors
 that have contributed to the decline in the number of children classified
 as mentally retarded since the implementation of this Act, and examines the
 current disparity among States in the percentage of children so classified.
 `(E) conducting pursuant to this subsection a study that examines the extent
 to which out-of-community residential programs are used for children and
 youth who are seriously emotionally disturbed, the factors that influence
 the selection of such placements, the degree to which such individuals
 transition back to education programs in their communities, and the factors
 that facilitate or impede such transition.
 `(F) conducting pursuant to this subsection a study that examines (i)
 the factors that influence the referral and placement decisions and types
 of placements, by disability category and English language proficiency,
 of minority children relative to other children, (ii) the extent to which
 these children are placed in regular education environments, (iii) the
 extent to which the parents of these children are involved in placement
 decisions and in the development and implementation of the individualized
 education program and the results of such participation, and (iv) the type
 of support provided to parents of these children that enable these parents
 to understand and participate in the educational process.
 `(f) The Secretary shall make grants to, or enter into contracts or
 cooperative agreements with, State or local educational agencies,
 institutions of higher education, other public agencies, and private
 nonprofit organizations to support activities that organize, synthesize,
 interpret, and integrate information obtained under subsections (c) and
 (e) with relevant knowledge obtained from other sources. Such activities
 shall include the selection and design of content, formats, and means
 for communicating such information effectively to specific or general
 audiences, in order to promote the use of such information in improving
 program administration and management, and service delivery and effectiveness.
 `(g)(1)(A) The Secretary is authorized to conduct activities, directly or
 by grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, to prepare an annual report
 on the progress being made toward the provision of--
 `(i) a free appropriate public education to all children and youth with
 disabilities; and
 `(ii) early intervention services for infants and toddlers with disabilities.
 `(B) Not later than 120 days after the close of each fiscal year, the
 Secretary shall transmit a copy of the report authorized under subparagraph
 (A) to the appropriate committees of each House of Congress. The annual
 report shall be published and disseminated in sufficient quantities to the
 education and disability communities and to other interested parties.
 `(2) The Secretary shall include in each annual report under paragraph (1)--
 `(A) a compilation and analysis of data gathered under subsection (b)
 and under part H; and
 `(B) a description of findings and determinations resulting from monitoring
 reviews of State implementation of this part.
 `(3) In the annual report under paragraph (1) for fiscal year 1991 (which
 is published in 1992) and for every third year thereafter, the Secretary
 shall include in the annual report--
 `(A) an index of all current projects funded under parts C through G; and
 `(B) data reported under sections 622 and 634.
 `(4) The Secretary shall include in each annual report under paragraph (1)
 the results of research and related activities conducted under part E that the
 Secretary determines are relevant to the effective implementation of this Act.
 `(5) The Secretary shall, in consultation with the National Council on
 Disability and the Bureau of Indian Affairs Advisory Committee for Exceptional
 Children, include a description of the status of early intervention services
 for infants and toddlers with disabilities from birth through age 2, and
 special education and related services to children with disabilities from
 3 through 5 years of age (including those receiving services through Head
 Start, developmental disabilities programs, crippled children's services,
 mental health/mental retardation agencies, and State child-development
 centers and private agencies under contract with local schools).
 `(h) There are authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 for fiscal year
 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1992 through 1994
 to carry out the purposes of this section and not more than 30 percent may
 be used to carry out the purposes of subsection (e) of this section.'.
TITLE III--CENTERS AND SERVICES TO MEET SPECIAL NEEDS OF HANDICAPPED
INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 301. REGIONAL RESOURCE AND FEDERAL CENTERS.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 621(a) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking `regional resource centers.' and
 inserting the following: `regional resource centers that focus on special
 education and related services and early intervention services.';
 (2) in the second sentence--
 (A) by striking `training to State' and inserting `training, as requested,
 to State'; and
 (B) by inserting after `agencies providing' the following: `special education
 and related services and';
 (3) in the third sentence, by striking `center' the second place such term
 appears and all that follows and inserting `center.'; and
 (4) in paragraph (3), by striking `relevant projects conducted by' and
 inserting `relevant programs and projects conducted under parts C through
 G and by'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (b)- Section 621(b) (20 U.S.C. 1421(b)) is
 amended by striking `shall consider' and inserting `shall utilize criteria
 for setting criteria that are consistent with the needs identified by States
 within the region served by such center, consistent with requirements
 established by the Secretary under subsection (f), and, to the extent
 appropriate, consistent with requirements under section 610, and shall
 consider'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (d)- Section 621(d) (20 U.S.C. 1421(d))
 is amended by inserting at the end thereof the following new sentence:
 `Such coordinating technical assistance center is authorized to--
 `(1) provide information to, and training for, agencies, institutions,
 and organizations, regarding techniques and approaches for submitting
 applications for grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this
 part and parts D through G, and shall make such information available to
 the regional resource centers on request;
 `(2) give priority to providing technical assistance concerning the education
 of children with disabilities from minority backgrounds;
 `(3) exchange information with, and, where appropriate, cooperate with,
 other centers addressing the needs of children with disabilities from
 minority backgrounds; and
 `(4) provide assistance to State educational agencies, through the regional
 resource centers, for the training of hearing officers.'.
 (d) NEW SUBSECTION- Section 621 (20 U.S.C. 1421) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) The Secretary shall develop guidelines and criteria for the operation
 of Regional and Federal Resource Centers. In developing such criteria and
 guidelines, the Secretary shall establish a panel representing the Office
 of Special Education Programs staff, State special education directors,
 representatives of disability advocates, and, when appropriate, consult
 with the regional resource center directors.
 `(2) Such guidelines and criteria shall include--
 `(A) a description of how the Federal and Regional Resource Centers Program
 will be administered by the Secretary;
 `(B) a description of the geographic region each Center is expected to serve;
 `(C) a description of the role of a Center in terms of expected leadership
 and dissemination efforts;
 `(D) a description of expected relationships with State agencies, research
 and demonstration centers, and with other entities deemed necessary;
 `(E) a description of how a Center will be evaluated; and
 `(F) other guidelines and criteria deemed necessary.
 `(3) The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register by July 1, 1991,
 for review and comment, proposed and (then following such review and comment)
 final guidelines developed by the panel.'.
SEC. 302. SERVICES FOR DEAF-BLIND CHILDREN AND YOUTH.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 622(a) (20 U.S.C. 1422(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting `local educational
 agencies, and designated lead agencies under part H' after `State educational
 agencies';
 (B) in subparagraph (A) by--
 (i) inserting `infants, toddlers,' before `children and youth'; and
 (ii) striking `special education and related services' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `special education, early intervention, and related services';
 (C) in subparagraph (B), by amending such subparagraph to read as follows:
 `(B) make available to deaf-blind youth (who are in the process of
 transitioning into adult services) programs, services, and supports to
 facilitate such transition, including assistance related to independent
 living and competitive employment.';
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through
 (5), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (1) the following
 new paragraph:
 `(2) For purposes of this section, the term `deaf-blind', with respect
 to children and youth, means having auditory and visual impairments,
 the combination of which creates such severe communication and other
 developmental and learning needs that they cannot be appropriately educated
 in special education programs solely for children and youth with hearing
 impairments, visual impairments, or severe disabilities, without supplementary
 assistance to address their educational needs due to these dual, concurrent
 disabilities.';
 (3) by amending paragraph (3) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
 subsection) to read as follows:
 `(3)(A) A grant, cooperative agreement, or contract may be made under
 paragraph (1)(A) only for programs providing--
 `(i) technical assistance to agencies, institutions, or organizations
 providing educational or early intervention services to deaf-blind infants,
 toddlers, children, or youth;
 `(ii) preservice or inservice training to paraprofessionals, professionals,
 or related services personnel preparing to serve, or serving, deaf-blind
 infants, toddlers, children, or youth;
 `(iii) replication of successful innovative approaches to providing
 educational, early intervention, or related services to deaf-blind infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth;
 `(iv) pilot projects that are designed to--
 `(I) expand local educational agency capabilities by providing services to
 deaf-blind children and youth that supplement services already provided to
 children and youth through State and local resources; and
 `(II) encourage eventual assumption of funding responsibility by State and
 local authorities;
 `(v) the development, improvement, or demonstration of new or existing
 methods, approaches, or techniques that contribute to the adjustment and
 education of deaf-blind infants, toddlers, children, and youth; or
 `(vi) facilitation of parental involvement in the education of their
 deaf-blind infants, toddlers, children, and youth.
 `(B) The programs described in subparagraph (A) may include--
 `(i) the diagnosis and educational evaluation of infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth who are likely to be diagnosed as deaf-blind;
 `(ii) programs of adjustment, education, and orientation for deaf-blind
 infants, toddlers, children, and youth; and
 `(iii) consultative, counseling, and training services for the families of
 deaf-blind infants, toddlers, children, and youth.';
 (4) in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), (i) by striking `organizations serving, or
 proposing to serve,' and inserting the following: `organizations that
 are preparing deaf-blind adolescents for adult placements, or that are
 preparing to receive deaf-blind young adults into adult living and work
 environments, or that serve, or propose to serve,', and (ii) by striking
 `who have attained age twenty-two years'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting `supervised,' after `rehabilitative,';
 (5) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated), by amending such paragraph to
 read as follows:
 `(5) In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary is authorized to enter
 into a number of grants or cooperative agreements to establish and support
 single and multi-State centers for the provision of technical assistance and
 pilot supplementary services, for the purposes of program development and
 expansion, for children and youth with deaf-blindness and their families.'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (c)- Section 622(c)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1422(c)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in clause (A), by inserting `sex,' after `severity,';
 (2) in clause (C), by inserting before the period the following: `and the
 setting in which the services are provided'; and
 (3)(A) by striking `and' at the end of clause (B);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of clause (C) and inserting `; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new clause: `(D) student outcomes,
 where appropriate.'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (d)- Section 622(d) (20 U.S.C. 1422(d)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(d) The Secretary shall make a grant, or enter into a contract or
 cooperative agreement, for a national clearinghouse for children and youth
 with deaf-blindness--
 `(1) to identify, coordinate, and disseminate information on deaf-blindness,
 emphasizing information concerning effective practices in working with
 deaf-blind infants, toddlers, children, and youth;
 `(2) to interact with educators, professional groups, and parents to identify
 areas for programming, materials development, training, and expansion of
 specific services;
 `(3) to maintain a computerized data base on local, regional, and national
 resources; and
 `(4) to respond to information requests from professionals, parents, and
 members of the community.'.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (e)- Section 622(e) (20 U.S.C. 1422(e)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(e) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration
 the availability and quality of existing services for deaf-blind infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth in the country, and, to the extent practicable,
 ensure that all parts of the country have an opportunity to receive assistance
 under this section.';
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (f)- Section 622(f) (20 U.S.C. 1422(f)) is
 amended by striking `with,' and all that follows and inserting the following:
 `with organizations or public or nonprofit private agencies, as determined
 by the Secretary to be appropriate, to address the needs of children and
 youth with deaf-blindness, for--
 `(1) research to identify and meet the full range of special needs of such
 children and youth; and
 `(2) the development and demonstration of new, or improvements in existing
 methods, approaches, or techniques that would contribute to the adjustment
 and education of children and youth with deaf-blindness.'.
SEC. 303. EARLY EDUCATION FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 623(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1423(a)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), in the first sentence,
 by striking `problems of such children.' and inserting `needs of these
 children.';
 (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `or other communication mode and'
 after `speech'; and
 (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before `encourage' the following:
 `provide family education and include a parent or their representative of
 such child, as well as';
 (4) in subparagraph (C), by striking `problems' and inserting `special needs';
 (5) in subparagraph (D)--
 (A) by inserting after `practices' the following: `, including
 interdisciplinary models and practices,'; and
 (B) by inserting before the comma the following: `and to the parents of
 such children';
 (6) in subparagraph (E), by inserting before the period the following:
 `, including the involvement of adult role models with disabilities at all
 levels of the program'; and
 (7) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (D), by striking out
 the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting in lieu thereof a
 comma, and by adding after subparagraph (E) the following:
 `(F) facilitate and improve the early identification of infants and
 toddlers with disabilities or those infants and toddlers at risk of having
 developmental disabilities,
 `(G) facilitate the transition of infants with disabilities or infants at
 risk of having developmental delays, from medical care to early intervention
 services, and the transition from early intervention services to preschool
 special education or regular education services (especially where the
 lead agency for early intervention programs under part H is not the State
 educational agency),
 `(H) promote the use of assistive technology devices and assistive technology
 services, where appropriate, to enhance the development of infants and
 toddlers with disabilities, and
 `(I) increase the understanding of, and address, the early intervention and
 preschool needs of children exposed prenatally to maternal substance abuse.'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (b)- Section 623(b) (20 U.S.C. 1423(b))
 is amended by adding at the end the following: `This technical assistance
 development system shall provide assistance to parents of and advocates for
 infants, toddlers, and children with disabilities, as well as direct service
 and administrative personnel involved with such children. Information from the
 system should be aggressively disseminated through established information
 networks and other mechanisms to ensure both an impact and benefits at the
 community level. The Secretary shall ensure that the technical assistance
 provided under this subsection includes assistance to part H State agencies
 on procedures for use by primary referral sources in referring a child to the
 appropriate agency within the system for evaluation, assessment, or service.'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (c)- Section 623(c) (20 U.S.C. 1423(c))
 is amended by adding at the end the following: `Such institutes shall
 disseminate this information in the manner prescribed in section 610(g).'.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (d)- Section 623(d) (20 U.S.C. 1423(d)) is
 amended by inserting before the period the following: `, including programs
 to integrate children with disabilities into regular preschool programs'.
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (f)- Section 623(f) (20 U.S.C. 1423(f)) is
 amended by inserting before the period the following: `, including infants
 and toddlers with disabilities'.
 (f) NEW SUBSECTION (g)- Section 623 (20 U.S.C. 1423) is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
 `(g) The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative
 agreements with, institutions of higher education and nonprofit private
 organizations to synthesize the knowledge developed under this section and
 organize, integrate, and present such knowledge so it can be incorporated
 and imparted to parents, professionals, and others providing or preparing
 to provide preschool or early intervention services and to persons designing
 preschool or early intervention programs.'.
SEC. 304. PROGRAMS FOR SEVERELY HANDICAPPED CHILDREN.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO SECTION HEADING- The heading for section 624 (20 U.S.C. 1424)
 is amended to read as follows:
`PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 624(a) (20 U.S.C. 1424(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by amending such matter to read
 as follows: `The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into contracts or
 cooperative agreements with, appropriate public agencies and nonprofit
 organizations to address the special education, related services, early
 intervention, and integration needs of infants, toddlers, children, and
 youth with severe disabilities through--';
 (2) in paragraph (1), (A) by inserting after `special needs' the following:
 `, including transportation to and from school', and (B) by inserting
 `education, related services, and early intervention' after `special';
 (3) in paragraph (3), (A) by inserting `special and regular education,
 related services, and early intervention' before `personnel', (B) by
 inserting `infants, toddlers,' after `such', and (C) by striking `youth,
 and' and inserting the following: `youth, including training of regular
 teachers, instructors, and administrators in strategies (the goal of which
 is to serve infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities) that
 include integrated settings for educating such children along side their
 nondisabled peers,';
 (4) in paragraph (4), by striking `children and youth.' and inserting the
 following: `children and youth by utilizing existing networks as prescribed
 in section 610(g) and'; and
 (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(5) statewide projects, in conjunction with the State's plan under part
 B, to improve the quality of special education and related services for
 children and youth with severe disabilities, and to change the delivery of
 those services from segregated to integrated environments.'.
 (b) NEW SUBSECTION- Section 624 (20 U.S.C. 1424) is amended by redesignating
 subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively, and by
 inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) The Secretary is authorized to make grants to, or enter into contracts
 or cooperative agreements with, public or private nonprofit private agencies,
 institutions, or organizations for the development and operation of extended
 school year demonstration programs for infants, toddlers, children, and
 youth with severe disabilities.'.
 (c) FURTHER NEW SUBSECTION- Section 624, as amended by subsection (b)
 of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) In awarding such grants and contracts under this section, the Secretary
 shall include a priority on programs that increase the likelihood that
 these children and youth will be educated with their nondisabled peers.'.
SEC. 305. POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 625(a) (20 U.S.C. 1424a(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `Such model programs may include joint projects that coordinate with special
 education and transition services.';
 (2) in paragraph (2)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `and' after the semicolon;
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 `; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) for outreach activities that include the provision of technical
 assistance to strengthen efforts in the development, operation, and design
 of model programs that are adapted to the special needs of individuals with
 disabilities.'; and
 (3) in paragraph (6), by striking `$2,000,000' and inserting `$4,000,000'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (b)- Section 625(b) (20 U.S.C. 1424a(b))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) For purposes of subsection (a), the term `individuals with disabilities'
 means individuals--
 `(1) with mental retardation, hearing impairments including deafness,
 speech or language impairments, visual impairments including blindness,
 serious emotional disturbance, orthopedic impairments, autism, traumatic
 brain injury, other health impairments, or specific learning disabilities; and
 `(2) who, by reason thereof, need special education and related services.'.
SEC. 306. SECONDARY EDUCATION AND TRANSITIONAL SERVICES FOR YOUTH WITH
DISABILITIES.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 626(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(1))
 is amended by inserting `independent and community living,' after `continuing
 education,'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (b)- Section 626(b) (20 U.S.C. 1425(b))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting `independent living,' after `training,';
 (2) in paragraph (8), by striking `handicapped youth' and all that follows
 and inserting the following: `some youth with disabilities remain to complete
 school programs while others drop out,';
 (3) in paragraph (9), by striking `developing' and all that follows through
 `techniques' and inserting `developing curriculum and instructional techniques
 in special education and related services';
 (4) in paragraph (10)--
 (A) by inserting `or adapted' after `specially designed'; and
 (B) by striking `to increase' and all that follows and inserting the
 following: `to facilitate the full participation of youths with disabilities
 in community programs.'; and
 (5) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (9), by striking the period
 at the end of paragraph (10) and inserting in lieu thereof `, and', and by
 adding after paragraph (10) the following:
 `(11) developing and disseminating exemplary programs and practices that
 meet the unique needs of students who utilize assistive technology devices
 and assistive technology services as such students make the transition
 to postsecondary education, vocational training, competitive employment
 (including supported employment), and continuing education or adult
 services.'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (d)- Section 626(d)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1425(d)(3))
 is amended by striking `to the extent appropriate,'.
 (d) NEW SUBSECTION (e)- Section 626 (20 U.S.C. 1425) is amended by
 redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g),
 respectively, and by inserting after subsection (d) the following new
 subsection:
 `(e)(1) The Secretary shall make one-time, 5-year grants, on a competitive
 basis, to States in which the State vocational rehabilitation agency and
 State educational agency submit a joint application to develop, implement,
 and improve systems to provide transition services for youth with disabilities
 from age 14 through the age they exit school.
 `(2) In the case of a State whose vocational rehabilitation agency does
 not participate regarding a joint application described in paragraph (1),
 the Secretary may make a grant under such paragraph to the State if a joint
 application for the grant is submitted by the State educational agency and
 one other State agency that provides transition services to individuals
 who are leaving programs under this Act.
 `(3) States that receive grants shall use grant funds to:
 `(A) Increase the availability, access, and quality of transition assistance
 through the development and improvement of policies, procedures, systems,
 and other mechanisms for youth with disabilities and their families as such
 youth prepare for and enter adult life.
 `(B) Improve the ability of professionals, parents, and advocates to work
 with such youth in ways that promote the understanding of and the capability
 to successfully make the transition from `student' to `adult'.
 `(C) Improve working relationships among education personnel, both within
 LEAs and in postsecondary training programs, relevant State agencies, the
 private sector (especially employers), rehabilitation personnel, local and
 State employment agencies, local Private Industry Councils (PICS) authorized
 by the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), and families of students with
 disabilities and their advocates to identify and achieve consensus on the
 general nature and specific application of transition services to meet the
 needs of youth with disabilities.
 `(D) Create an incentive for accessing and using the expertise and resources
 of programs, projects, and activities related to transition funded through
 this section and with other sources.
 `(4)(A) In order to receive funding under this subsection, a State vocational
 rehabilitation agency and State educational agency shall describe in their
 application how they will use the first year, if necessary, to plan how to
 implement transition services, the second through fourth years to develop
 and implement transition services, and the fifth year to evaluate transition
 services. The application shall describe how the grant funds will be used
 during the planning period and phased out during the evaluation period to
 ensure the continuation of transition services. Such applications shall
 also include--
 `(i) a description of the current availability, access, and quality
 of transition services for eligible youth and a description of how,
 over 5 years, the State will improve and expand the availability, access,
 and quality of transition services for youth with disabilities and their
 families as such youth prepare for and enter adult life;
 `(ii) a description of how the State will improve and increase the ability
 of professionals, parents, and advocates to work with such youth in ways
 that promote the understanding of and the capability to successfully make
 the transition from `student' to `adult';
 `(iii) a description of how the State will improve and increase working
 relationships among education personnel, both within LEAs and in postsecondary
 training programs, relevant State agencies, the private sector (especially
 employers), rehabilitation personnel, local and State employment agencies,
 local Private Industry Councils (PICS) authorized by the JTPA, and families
 of students with disabilities and their advocates to identify and achieve
 consensus on the general nature and specific application of transition
 services to meet the needs of youth with disabilities; and
 `(iv) a description of how the State will use grant funds as an incentive
 for accessing and using the expertise and resources of programs, projects,
 and activities related to transition funded through this section and with
 other sources.
 `(B) The Secretary shall give preference to those applications that, in
 addition to clearly addressing the requirements under subparagraph (A),
 describe how the State will--
 `(i) target resources to school settings, such as providing access to
 rehabilitation counselors for students with disabilities who are in school
 settings;
 `(ii) target a substantial amount of grant funds, received under this
 subsection, to case management, program evaluation and documentation of,
 and dissemination of information about, transition services;
 `(iii) provide incentives for interagency and private sector resource pooling
 and otherwise investing in transition services, especially in the form of
 cooperative agreements, particularly with PICS authorized by the JTPA and
 local branches of State employment agencies;
 `(iv) provide for early, ongoing information and training for those involved
 with or who could be involved with transition services--professionals,
 parents, youth with disabilities, including self-advocacy training for such
 youth, and advocates for such youth as well as PICS authorized by the JTPA
 and local branches of State employment agencies;
 `(v) provide for the early and direct involvement of all relevant parties,
 including PICS authorized by the JTPA and local branches of State employment
 agencies, in operating and planning improvements in transition services,
 and the early and direct involvement of all relevant parties in planning
 and implementing transition services for individual youth;
 `(vi) provide access to training for eligible youth that matches labor
 market needs in their communities;
 `(vii) integrate transition services with relevant opportunities in
 communities, including those sponsored by PICS authorized by the JTPA and
 local employment agencies;
 `(viii) use a transition services evaluation plan that is outcome oriented
 and that focuses on individual youth-focused benefits; and
 `(ix) ensure that, when appropriate and no later than age 22, eligible youth
 who participate in transition services under this program would be served
 as appropriate in the State section 110 and/or title VI, part C program
 authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.'.
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO FORMER SUBSECTION (e)- Section 626(f), as redesignated
 by subsection (d) of this section, is amended--
 (1)(A) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation; and
 (B) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) (as so designated) the following
 new sentence: `Such organizations and institutions shall disseminate such
 materials and information as prescribed under section 610(g).';
 (2) by adding after paragraph (1) (as so designated) the following new
 paragraph:
 `(2) The Secretary shall fund one or more demonstration models designed
 to establish appropriate methods of providing, or continuing to provide,
 assistive technology devices and services to secondary school students
 as they make the transition to vocational rehabilitation, employment,
 postsecondary education, or adult services. Such demonstration models shall
 include, as appropriate--
 `(A) cooperative agreements with the Rehabilitation Services Administration
 and/or State vocational rehabilitation agencies that ensure continuity of
 funding for assistive technology devices and services to such students; and
 `(B) methods for dissemination of exemplary practices that can be adapted
 or adopted by transitional programs for secondary school students with
 disabilities.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3)(A) The Secretary shall award one, five-year cooperative agreement through
 a separate competition to an institution of higher education, or nonprofit
 public or private organization. The purpose of this agreement will be to
 evaluate and document the approaches and outcomes of the projects funded under
 subsection (e). The results of this agreement shall be disseminated through
 the appropriate clearinghouses, networks, and through direct communication
 with Federal, State, and local agencies.
 `(B) The evaluation carried out pursuant to subparagraph (A) of transition
 services under subsection (e) shall include an evaluation of--
 `(i) the outcomes of the transition services provided under such subsection,
 including the effect of the services regarding postsecondary education,
 job training, employment, and other appropriate matters;
 `(ii) the impact of including in the individualized education program
 a statement of needed transition services (as required under section
 602(a)(20)(D));
 `(iii) the extent to which, in the provision of the transition services,
 agencies are cooperating effectively, including evaluation of the extent
 of coordination of the staff of the agencies, of procedures regarding
 confidentiality, assessment of needs, and referrals, and coordination
 regarding data bases and training;
 `(iv) the extent to which obstacles exist regarding cooperation and
 coordination among agencies in the provision of the transition services,
 and the extent to which Federal law creates disincentives to such cooperation
 and coordination; and
 `(v) the extent to which the transition services have been provided in a
 cost-effective manner.
 `(C) The evaluation carried out pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall include
 recommendations on the manner in which the program under subsection (e)
 can be improved.
 `(D) In the annual report required under section 618(g), the Secretary
 shall include a report of the activities and results associated with the
 agreement under subparagraph (A).'.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO FORMER SUBSECTION (f)- Section 626(g), as redesignated by
 subsection (d) of this section, is amended by inserting before the period
 the following: `, the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), and the Carl
 D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act'.
SEC. 307. PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH WITH SERIOUS EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE.
 Section 627 (20 U.S.C. 1426) is amended to read as follows:
`PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH WITH SERIOUS EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE
 `SEC. 627. (a) The Secretary is authorized to make grants to, or enter into
 contracts or cooperative agreements with, institutions of higher education,
 State and local educational agencies, and other appropriate public and
 private nonprofit institutions or agencies to establish projects for the
 purpose of improving special education and related services to children
 and youth with serious emotional disturbance. Such projects may include--
 `(1) studies regarding the present state of special education and related
 services to such children and youth and their families, including information
 and data to enable assessments of the status of such services over time;
 `(2) developing methodologies and curricula designed to improve special
 education and related services for these children and youth;
 `(3) developing and demonstrating strategies and approaches to reduce
 the use of out-of-community residential programs and the increased use of
 school district-based programs (which may include day treatment programs,
 after-school programs, and summer programs);
 `(4) developing the knowledge, skills, and strategies for effective
 collaboration among special education, regular education, related services,
 and other professionals and agencies; or
 `(5) developing and demonstrating innovative approaches to assist and to
 prevent children with emotional and behavioral problems from developing
 serious emotional disturbances that require the provision of special
 education and related services.
 `(b)(1) The Secretary is authorized to make grants, on a competitive
 basis, to local educational agencies in collaboration with mental health
 entities to provide services for children and youth with serious emotional
 disturbance. Such demonstration projects shall--
 `(A) increase the availability, access, and quality of community services
 for such children and youth and their families;
 `(B) improve working relationships among education, school, and community
 mental health and other relevant personnel, families of such children and
 youth, and their advocates;
 `(C) target resources to school settings, such as providing access to school
 and/or community mental health professionals and other community resources
 for students with serious emotional disturbance who are in community school
 settings; and
 `(D) take into account the needs of minority children and youth in all
 phases of project activity.
 `(2) Funds received under this subsection may also be used to facilitate
 interagency and private sector resource pooling to improve services for
 such children and youth and to provide information and training for those
 involved with, or who could be involved with, such children and youth.
 `(c) Each project assisted under this section shall--
 `(1) apply existing research outcomes from multi-disciplinary fields;
 `(2) use a grant evaluation plan that is outcome-oriented and that focuses
 on the benefits to individual children and youth;
 `(3) report on the effectiveness of such project; and
 `(4) disseminate the findings of such project, where appropriate, in
 accordance with section 610(g).'.
SEC. 308. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 628 (20 U.S.C. 1427) is amended to read as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 628. (a) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section
 621 $8,525,000 for fiscal year 1991, $9,300,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $10,140,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $11,052,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 622
 $21,900,000 for fiscal year 1991, $24,100,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $26,500,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $29,200,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(c) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 623
 $31,400,000 for fiscal year 1991, $34,235,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $37,325,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $40,705,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(d) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section
 624 $9,500,000 for fiscal year 1991, $10,500,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $11,600,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $12,700,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(e) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section
 625 $9,470,000 for fiscal year 1991, $10,230,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $11,050,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $11,930,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(f) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 626 (except
 subsection (e)) $9,800,000 for fiscal year 1991, $10,800,000 for fiscal year
 1992, $11,900,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $13,050,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(g) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 626(e)
 $27,500,000 for fiscal year 1991, $30,250,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $33,275,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $36,602,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(h) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 627
 $6,500,000 for fiscal year 1991, $8,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $9,500,000
 for fiscal year 1993, and $11,500,000 for fiscal year 1994.'.
TITLE IV--TRAINING PERSONNEL FOR THE EDUCATION OF HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 401. GRANTS FOR PERSONNEL TRAINING.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)(1)- Section 631(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1431(a)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `special education and early
 intervention' and inserting `special education, related services, and
 early intervention';
 (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking `adaptive physical education' and
 inserting `adapted physical education and instructional and assistive
 technology services';
 (3) in subparagraphs (B) through (D), by amending such subparagraphs to
 read as follows:
 `(B) related services to children and youth with disabilities in educational
 settings, and other settings,
  `(C) special education and other careers in preschool and early intervention
  services for infants and toddlers with disabilities,
 `(D) special education leadership, including supervision and administration
 (at the advanced graduate, doctoral, and post-doctoral levels), special
 education research, and special education personnel preparation (at the
 doctoral and post-doctoral levels), and'.
 (b) FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (a)- Section 631(a) (20 U.S.C. 1431(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2)(A), (A) by striking `for the personnel' and inserting
 `for special education, related services, early intervention, and other
 personnel', and (B) after `shortages' inserting `, including the need for
 personnel in the provision of special education to children of limited
 English proficiency';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting before the period the following: `,
 and that include in their applications a detailed description of strategies
 that will be utilized to recruit and train members of minority groups and
 persons with disabilities';
 (3) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `Such institutions shall give priority consideration in the selection
 of qualified recipients of fellowships and traineeships to individuals
 from disadvantaged backgrounds, including minorities and individuals with
 disabilities who are underrepresented in the teaching profession or in the
 specializations in which they are being trained.'.
 (c) NEW PARAGRAPHS IN SUBSECTION (a)- Section 631(a) (20 U.S.C. 1431(a))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(5) In making grants under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary may determine
 that a portion of training supported through such grants shall be conducted on
 an interdisciplinary basis, and shall be designed to assist special educators
 in properly coordinating service provision with related services personnel. To
 the extent feasible, training programs funded under subsection (a)(1)(B)
 and (a)(1)(E) shall require practica to demonstrate the delivery of related
 services in an array of regular and special education and community settings.
 `(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent regular
 education or special education personnel from benefiting or participating
 in training activities conducted under this subsection on a preservice or
 inservice basis.
 `(7) The Secretary, in carrying out paragraph (1), shall make grants to
 Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and other institutions of
 higher education whose minority student enrollment is at least 25 percent.'.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (b)- Section 631(b) (20 U.S.C. 1431(b))
 is amended by striking `nonprofit agencies' and all that follows and
 inserting the following: `nonprofit agencies and organizations to develop
 and demonstrate effective ways for preservice training programs to prepare
 regular educators to work with children and youth with disabilities and their
 families; for training teachers to work in community and school settings
 with school students with disabilities and their families; for inservice and
 preservice training of personnel to work with infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities and their families; for inservice and preservice
 training of personnel to work with minority infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities and their families; for preservice and inservice
 training of special education and related services personnel in the use
 of assistive and instructional technology to benefit infants, toddlers,
 children, and youth with disabilities; and for the recruitment and retention
 of special education, related services, and early intervention personnel. Both
 preservice and inservice training shall include a component that addresses
 the coordination among all service providers, including regular educators.'.
 (e) AMENDMENT TO SUBSECTION (c)-
 (1) Section 631(c)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)) is amended--
 (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) be governed by a board of directors of which a majority of the
 members are parents of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with
 disabilities, particularly minority parents, and that includes members
 who are professionals, especially minority professionals, in the field of
 special education, early intervention, and related services, and individuals
 with disabilities, or, if the nonprofit private organization does not have
 such a board, such organization shall have a membership that represents the
 interests of individuals with disabilities, and shall establish a special
 governing committee of which a majority of the members are parents of infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities, particularly parents
 of minority children, and which includes members who are professionals,
 especially minority professionals, in the field of special education, early
 intervention, and related services, to operate the training and information
 program under paragraph (1), and parent and professional membership of these
 boards or special governing committees shall be broadly representative of
 minority and other individuals and groups having an interest in special
 education, early intervention, and related services;';
 (B) in subparagraph (B)--
 (i) by striking `children' and inserting `infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth'; and
 (ii) by striking `handicapping' and inserting `disabling'; and
 (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting before the period the following: `,
 and, for purposes of paragraph (1), network with clearinghouses, including
 those established under section 633 and other organizations and agencies,
 and network with other established national, State, and local parent groups
 representing the full range of parents of infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities, especially parents of minority children'.
 (2) Section 631(c)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)) is amended by adding after
 subparagraph (C) the following: `Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be
 construed to authorize or permit the denial to any person of the due process
 of law required by the United States Constitution.'.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (c)(4)- Section 631(c)(4) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(4))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting a
 comma; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) serve parents of minority children with disabilities representative
 to the proportion of the minority population in the areas being served, and
 `(D) be funded at a sufficient size, scope, and quality to ensure that the
 program is adequate to serve the parents in the area.'.
 (g) NEW PARAGRAPH IN SUBSECTION (c)- Section 631(c) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(9) After the establishment in each State of a parent training and
 information center, the Secretary shall provide for the establishment of
 3 experimental centers to serve large numbers of parents of children with
 disabilities located in high density areas that do not have such centers
 and 2 such centers to serve large numbers of parents of children with
 disabilities located in rural areas.
 `(10) Effective for fiscal year 1991 and every year thereafter, the
 Secretary shall obtain data concerning programs and centers assisted under
 this subsection on--
 `(A) the number of parents provided information and training by disability
 category of their children,
 `(B) the types and modes of information or training provided,
 `(C) strategies used to reach and serve parents of minority infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities,
 `(D) the number of parents served as a result of activities described under
 subparagraph (C),
 `(E) activities to network with other information clearinghouses and parent
 groups as required in subsection (c)(2)(C), and
 `(F) the number of agencies and organizations consulted with at the national,
 State, regional, and local levels.
The Secretary shall include a summary of this information in the annual
report to Congress as required in section 618(g).'.
 (h) FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO SUBSECTION (c)- Section 631(c) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), in the first and second sentences, by striking `parents
 of handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `parents
 of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities';
 (2) in paragraph (5)--
 (A) in subparagraph (E), by amending such subparagraph to read as follows:
 `(E) obtain appropriate information about the range of options, programs,
 services, and resources available at the national, State, and local levels
 to assist infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities and
 their families, and'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking `handicapped' and all that follows
 and inserting the following: `infants, toddlers, children, and youth with
 disabilities under this Act.'; and
 (3) in paragraph (7)--
 (A) by striking `with appropriate agencies which' and inserting the following:
 `and network with appropriate national, State, regional, and local agencies
 and organizations, such as protection and advocacy agencies, that'; and
 (B) by striking `handicapped children and youth' and inserting `infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities and their families'.
SEC. 402. GRANTS TO STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES AND INSTITUTIONS FOR
TRAINEESHIPS.
 Section 632 (20 U.S.C. 1432) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c) by--
 (A) inserting `special and regular education, related services and early
 intervention' after `prepare'; and
 (B) by striking the period at the end thereof and inserting a comma and
 `and to assist the State in developing and maintaining such systems and
 conducting personnel recruitment and retention activities.'; and
 (2) by inserting at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(d) The Secretary is authorized to provide directly or by grant, contract,
 or cooperative agreement, technical assistance to State educational agencies
 on matters pertaining to the effective implementation of section 613(a)(3).'.
SEC. 403. CLEARINGHOUSES.
 Section 633 (20 U.S.C. 1433) is amended to read as follows:
`CLEARINGHOUSES
 `SEC. 633. (a) The Secretary is authorized to make grants to, or enter
 into contracts or cooperative agreements with, public agencies or private
 nonprofit organizations or institutions for the establishment of three
 national clearinghouses: on children and youth with disabilities; on
 postsecondary education for individuals with disabilities; and on careers
 in special education, to--
 `(1) collect, develop, and disseminate information,
 `(2) provide technical assistance,
 `(3) conduct coordinated outreach activities,
 `(4) provide for the coordination and networking with other relevant national,
 State, and local organizations and information and referral resources,
 `(5) respond to individuals and organizations seeking information, and
 `(6) provide for the synthesis of information for its effective utilization by
 parents, professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested
 parties.
 `(b) The national clearinghouse for children and youth with disabilities
 shall:
 `(1) Collect and disseminate information (including the development of
 materials) on characteristics of infants, toddlers, children, and youth
 with disabilities and on programs, legislation, and services relating to
 their education under this Act and other Federal laws.
 `(2) Participate in programs and services related to disability issues for
 providing outreach, technical assistance, collection, and dissemination
 of information; and promoting networking of individuals with appropriate
 national, State, and local agencies and organizations.
 `(3) Establish a coordinated network and conduct outreach activities with
 relevant Federal, State, and local organizations and other sources for
 promoting public awareness of disability issues and the availability of
 information, programs, and services.
 `(4) Collect, disseminate, and develop information on current and future
 national, Federal, regional, and State needs for providing information to
 parents, professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested
 parties relating to the education and related services of individuals
 with disabilities.
 `(5) Provide technical assistance to national, Federal, regional, State
 and local agencies and organizations seeking to establish information and
 referral services for individuals with disabilities and their families.
 `(6) In carrying out the activities in this subsection, the clearinghouse
 will include strategies to disseminate information to underrepresented
 groups such as those with limited English proficiency.
 `(c) The national clearinghouse on postsecondary education for individuals
 with disabilities shall:
 `(1) Collect and disseminate information nationally on characteristics of
 individuals entering and participating in education and training programs
 after high school; legislation affecting such individuals and such programs;
 policies, procedures, and support services, as well as adaptations, and
 other resources available or recommended to facilitate the education of
 individuals with disabilities; available programs and services that include,
 or can be adapted to include, individuals with disabilities; and sources of
 financial aid for the education and training of individuals with disabilities.
 `(2) Identify areas of need for additional information.
 `(3) Develop new materials (in both print and nonprint form), especially
 by synthesizing information from a variety of fields affecting disability
 issues and the education, rehabilitation, and retraining of individuals
 with disabilities.
 `(4) Develop a coordinated network of professionals, related organizations
 and associations, mass media, other clearinghouses, and governmental
 agencies at the Federal, regional, State, and local level for the purposes
 of disseminating information and promoting awareness of issues relevant
 to the education of individuals with disabilities after high school and
 referring individuals who request information to local resources.
 `(5) Respond to requests from individuals with disabilities, their parents,
 and professionals who work with them, for information that will enable them
 to make appropriate decisions about postsecondary education and training.
 `(d) The national clearinghouse designed to encourage students to seek
 careers and professional personnel to seek employment in the various fields
 relating to the education of children and youth with disabilities shall:
 `(1) Collect and disseminate information on current and future national,
 regional, and State needs for special education and related services
 personnel.
 `(2) Disseminate information to high school counselors and others concerning
 current career opportunities in special education, location of programs,
 and various forms of financial assistance (such as scholarships, stipends,
 and allowances).
 `(3) Identify training programs available around the country.
 `(4) Establish a network among local and State educational agencies and
 institutions of higher education concerning the supply of graduates and
 available openings.
 `(5) Provide technical assistance to institutions seeking to meet State
 and professionally recognized standards.
 `(e)(1) In awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this
 section, the Secretary shall give priority consideration to any applicant
 with demonstrated, proven effectiveness (at the national level) in performing
 the functions established in this section; and with the ability to conduct
 such projects, communicate with intended consumers of information, and
 maintain the necessary communication with national, regional, State, and
 local agencies and organizations.
 `(2) In awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this
 section, the Secretary shall give priority consideration to any applicant
 with demonstrated, proven effectiveness (at the national level) in providing
 informational services to minorities and minority organizations.
 `(f)(1) Beginning in fiscal year 1991, and for each year thereafter, the
 Secretary shall obtain information on each project assisted under this
 section, including--
 `(A) the number of individuals served by disability category, as appropriate,
 including parents, professionals, students, and individuals with disabilities;
 `(B) a description of responses utilized;
 `(C) a listing of new products developed and disseminated; and
 `(D) a description of strategies and activities utilized for outreach to urban
 and rural areas with populations of minorities and underrepresented groups.
 `(2) A summary of the data required by this subsection shall be included
 in the annual report to Congress required under section 618.'.
SEC. 404. REPORTS TO SECRETARY.
 Section 634(a) (20 U.S.C. 1434(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) information described in section 631(c)(9) and section 633(f)(1),
 as applicable.'.
SEC. 405. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 635(a) (20 U.S.C. 1435(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part
 (other than sections 631(a)(7), 631(c), and 633) $94,725,000 for fiscal year
 1991, $103,255,000 for fiscal year 1992, $113,580,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 and $123,760,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 631(a)(7)
 $19,250,000 for fiscal year 1991, $21,175,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $23,292,500 for fiscal year 1993, and $25,621,750 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(3) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 631(c)
 $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $12,100,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $13,300,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $14,600,000 for fiscal year 1994.
 `(4) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 633
 $2,900,000 for fiscal year 1991, $2,465,000 for fiscal year 1992, $2,710,000
 for fiscal year 1993, and $2,960,000 for fiscal year 1994.'.
TITLE V--RESEARCH IN EDUCATION OF INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
SEC. 501. RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS IN EDUCATION OF CHILDREN
WITH DISABILITIES.
 Section 641 (20 U.S.C. 1441) is amended to read as follows:
`RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
 `SEC. 641. (a) The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into contracts
 or cooperative agreements with, State and local educational agencies,
 institutions of higher education, other public agencies and nonprofit private
 organizations for the purpose of advancing and improving the knowledge base
 and improving the practice of professionals, parents, and others providing
 early intervention, special education, and related services, including
 professionals who work with children and youth with disabilities in regular
 education environments, to provide such children effective instruction
 and enable them to successfully learn. The activities supported under
 this section shall support innovation, development, exchange, and use of
 such advancements in knowledge and practice designed to contribute to the
 improvement of instruction and learning of infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities. In carrying out this section, the Secretary
 may support a wide range of research and related activities designed to--
 `(1) advance knowledge regarding the provision of instruction and other
 interventions to infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities
 including--
 `(A) the organization, synthesis, and interpretation of current knowledge
 and the identification of knowledge gaps;
 `(B) the identification of knowledge and skill competencies needed
 by personnel providing special education, related services, and early
 intervention services;
 `(C) the improvement of knowledge regarding the developmental and learning
 characteristics of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities
 in order to improve the design and effectiveness of interventions and
 instruction;
 `(D) the evaluation of approaches and interventions;
 `(E) the development of instructional strategies, techniques, and activities;
 `(F) the improvement of curricula and instructional tools such as textbooks,
 media, materials, and technology;
 `(G) the development of assessment techniques, instruments (including tests,
 inventories, and scales), and strategies for measurement of progress and the
 identification, location, and evaluation of infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities for the purpose of determining eligibility,
 program planning, and placement for special education, related services,
 and early intervention services. Particular attention should be given to
 the development of alternative assessment procedures and processes for
 minority individuals and those with limited English proficiency;
 `(H) the testing of research findings in practice settings to determine
 the application, usability, effectiveness, and generalizability of such
 research findings;
 `(I) the improvement of knowledge regarding families, minorities, limited
 English proficiency, and disabling conditions; and
 `(J) the identification of environmental, organizational, resource, and
 other conditions necessary for effective professional practice; and
 `(2) advance the use of knowledge by personnel providing special education,
 related services, and early intervention services including--
 `(A) the improvement of knowledge regarding how such individuals learn
 new knowledge and skills, and strategies for effectively facilitating such
 learning in preservice, inservice, and continuing education;
 `(B) the organization, integration, and presentation of knowledge so that
 such knowledge can be incorporated and imparted in personnel preparation,
 continuing education programs, and other relevant training and communication
 vehicles; and
 `(C) the expansion and improvement of networks that exchange knowledge and
 practice information.
 `(b) In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the special
 education, related services, or early intervention and research experience
 of applicants.
 `(c) The Secretary shall publish proposed priorities under this part in
 the Federal Register not later than 12 months preceding the fiscal year
 for which they are being announced, and shall allow a period of 60 days for
 public comments and suggestions. The Secretary shall, after analyzing and
 considering the public comments, publish final priorities in the Federal
 Register not later than 90 days after the close of the comment period.
 `(d) The Secretary shall provide an index (including the title of each
 project and the name and address of the funded organization) of all projects
 conducted under this part in the prior fiscal year in the annual report
 described under section 618.
 `(e) The Secretary shall--
 `(1) coordinate the priorities established under subsection (b) with
 research priorities established by the National Institute for Disability and
 Rehabilitation Research and other appropriate agencies conducting research
 pertaining to the education of individuals with disabilities; and
 `(2) provide information concerning priorities established under subsection
 (b) to the National Council on Disability and to the Bureau of Indian
 Affairs Advisory Committee for Exceptional Children.
 `(f)(1) The Secretary shall make grants or enter into contracts or cooperative
 agreements for the establishment of a center or centers designed to organize,
 synthesize, and disseminate current knowledge relating to children with
 attention deficit disorder with respect to the following:
 `(A) Assessment techniques, instruments, and strategies used for
 identification, location, evaluation and for measurement of progress.
 `(B) Knowledge and skill competencies needed by professionals providing
 special and regular education and related services.
 `(C) Environmental, organizational, resource, and other conditions necessary
 for effective professional practice.
 `(D) Developmental and learning characteristics.
 `(E) Instructional strategies, techniques, and activities.
 `(F) Curricula and instructional tools such as textbooks, media, materials,
 and technology.
 `(G) Strategies, techniques, and activities related to involvement of
 families.
 `(2) In awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under paragraph
 (1), the Secretary shall give priority consideration to applicants with--
 `(A) demonstrated knowledge concerning the disorder;
 `(B) proven effectiveness in performing the functions established in this
 subsection; and
 `(C) the ability to--
 `(i) conduct such projects;
 `(ii) communicate with intended consumers of information; and
 `(iii) maintain the necessary communication with national, regional, State,
 and local agencies.
 `(g)(1) The Secretary shall make grants, or enter into contracts or
 cooperative agreements, for the establishment of model demonstration programs,
 of which some will be school-based models, that provide the services of an
 ombudsman to assist in resolving problems that are barriers to appropriate
 educational, related services, or other services for children and youth
 with disabilities.
 `(2) Programs under paragraph (1) shall provide or identify personnel to
 assist children and youth with disabilities, their parents or guardians,
 special and regular education teachers, State and local education
 administrators, and related services personnel to resolve problems in a
 timely manner through dispute mediation and other methods, notwithstanding
 due process procedures, in order to further the delivery of appropriate
 education and related services. Participation in this program does not
 preclude or delay due process under part B of this Act.
 `(3) Ombudsman services for programs under paragraph (1) shall be provided
 by social workers, parent advocates, psychologists, and persons with similar
 qualifications designated by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 502. RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND
RECREATION FOR CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES.
 Section 642 (20 U.S.C. 1442) is amended by striking `recreation for
 handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `recreation
 for children with disabilities, including therapeutic recreation'.
SEC. 503. PANELS OF EXPERTS.
 Part E (20 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.) is amended by striking section 643 and by
 redesignating section 644 as section 643.
SEC. 504. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 643, as redesignated by section 503 of this Act, is amended to read
 as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 643. For purposes of carrying out this part, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $21,100,000 for fiscal year 1990, $24,650,000 for fiscal
 year 1991, $27,400,000 for fiscal year 1992, $30,200,000 for fiscal year
 1993, and $33,200,000 for fiscal year 1994.'.
TITLE VI--INSTRUCTIONAL MEDIA FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
SEC. 601. PURPOSES.
 Section 651 (20 U.S.C. 1451) is amended--
 (1) by striking the subsection designation;
 (2) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by inserting `and hard of hearing' after `deaf' each place it appears;
 (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `and television programs' after
 `those films'; and
 (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting `and television programs' after
 `these films';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end of
 subparagraph (B), by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph
 (C) and inserting in lieu thereof `; and', and by adding at the end the
 following new subparagraph:
 `(D) utilizing educational media to help eliminate illiteracy among
 individuals with disabilities;'; and
 (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting `;
 and' and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) the general welfare of visually impaired individuals by--
 `(A) bringing to such individuals an understanding and appreciation of
 textbooks, films, television programs, video material, and other educational
 publications and materials that play such an important part in the general
 and cultural advancement of visually unimpaired individuals; and
 `(B) ensuring access to television programming and other video materials.'.
SEC. 602. CAPTIONED FILMS AND EDUCATIONAL MEDIA FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES.
 Section 652 (20 U.S.C. 1452) is amended--
 (1) in the heading for such section, by inserting `, TELEVISION, DESCRIPTIVE
 VIDEO,' after `FILMS';
 (2) in subsection (a), by inserting `, descriptive video,' after `captioned
 films';
 (3) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (3), by striking `captioning of films' and inserting
 `captioning for deaf and hard of hearing individuals and video description
 for the visually impaired, of films, television programs, and video
 materials'; and
 (B) in paragraph (4)--
 (i) by striking `captioned films' and inserting `captioned and video-described
 films, video materials,'; and
 (ii) inserting `or entities' after `agencies';
 (C) in paragraph (8), by inserting `and hard of hearing' after `deaf';
 (4) in subsection (c), by--
 (A) inserting `and other appropriate non-profit organizations' after
 `Inc.'; and
 (B) striking `theatrical' and inserting `cultural';
 (5) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting `and hard of hearing' after `deaf';
 (6) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting `and hard of hearing' after `deaf'; and
 (7) in subsection (c)(3), (A) by inserting `and hard of hearing' after
 `deaf', and (B) by inserting `, educational, and social' after `cultural'.
 (8) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) The Secretary is authorized to make a grant or enter into a contract
 for the purpose of providing current, free textbooks and other educational
 publications and materials to blind and other print-handicapped students
 in elementary, secondary, postsecondary, and graduate schools and other
 institutions of higher education through the medium of transcribed tapes
 and cassettes.
 `(2) For the purpose of this subsection, the term `print-handicapped' refers
 to any individual who is blind or severely visually impaired, or who, by
 reason of a physical or perceptual disability, is unable to read printed
 material unassisted.'.
SEC. 603. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 653 (20 U.S.C. 1454) is amended to read as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 653. For the purpose of carrying out section 652 there are authorized
 to be appropriated $20,010,000 for fiscal year 1991, $22,010,000 for fiscal
 year 1992, $24,200,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $26,600,000 for fiscal
 year 1994.'.
TITLE VII--TECHNOLOGY, EDUCATIONAL MEDIA, AND MATERIALS FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES
SEC. 701. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
 Section 661 (20 U.S.C. 1461) is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), in the first sentence, by
 striking `provision of early intervention' and inserting `provision of
 related services and early intervention services';
 (2) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by inserting `assistive technology,' after `technology,'; and
 (B) by striking `more effectively' and inserting `most effectively,
 efficiently, and appropriately';
 (3) in paragraphs (2) through (4), by striking `new technology,' each place
 such term appears and inserting `technology, assistive technology,';
 (4) in paragraph (4), by inserting before the period at the end the following:
 `, where appropriate, to entities described in section 610(g)';
 (5)(A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting a
 comma; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 `(5) increasing access to and use of assistive technology devices and
 assistive technology services in the education of infants, toddlers,
 children, and youth with disabilities, and other activities authorized under
 the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities Act of
 1988, as such Act relates to the education of students with disabilities, and
 `(6) examining how these purposes can address the problem of illiteracy
 among individuals with disabilities.'; and
 (6) by inserting `(a)' after the section designation and by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(b)(1) With respect to new technology, media, and materials utilized with
 funds under this part to improve the education of students with disabilities,
 the Secretary shall make efforts to ensure that such instructional materials
 are closed captioned.
 `(2) The Secretary may not award a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement
 under paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) unless the applicant
 for such assistance agrees that activities carried out with the assistance
 will be coordinated, as appropriate, with the State entity receiving funds
 under title I of Public Law 100-407.'.
SEC. 702. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 662 (20 U.S.C. 1462) is amended to read as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 662. For the purpose of carrying out this part, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $11,900,000 for fiscal year 1991, $12,860,000 for fiscal
 year 1992, $13,890,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $15,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1994.'.
TITLE VIII--INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES
SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 672(2)(E) (20 U.S.C. 1472(2)(E)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' after the comma at the end of clause (ix) and inserting
 `and' after the comma at the end of clause (x); and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(xi) social work services,'.
SEC. 802. REQUIREMENTS FOR STATEWIDE SYSTEM.
 Section 676(b) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (6), by inserting before the comma the following: `,
 including the preparation and dissemination by the lead agency to all primary
 referral sources of information materials for parents on the availability
 of early intervention services, and procedures for determining the extent
 to which primary referral sources, especially hospitals and physicians,
 disseminate information on the availability of early intervention services
 as required under this paragraph to parents of infants with disabilities'; and
 (2) in paragraph (8), by inserting before the comma the following:
 `, including training of primary referral sources respecting the basic
 components of early intervention services available in the State'.
TITLE IX--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 901. TERMINOLOGY AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) REVISION IN SHORT TITLE-
 (1) Section 601(a) (20 U.S.C. 1400(a)) is amended by striking `This title'
 and all that follows and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `This
 title may be cited as the `Individuals with Disabilities Education Act'.'.
 (2) The following Acts are each amended by striking `Education of the
 Handicapped Act' each place it occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
 `Individuals with Disabilities Education Act': Carl D. Perkins Vocational
 Education and Applied Technology Act; Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse, Drug
 Abuse, and Mental Health Amendments Act of 1988; Department of Education
 Organization Act; Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights
 Act Amendments of 1987; Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975;
 Education of the Deaf Act of 1986; Elementary and Secondary Education
 Act of 1965; Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988; Omnibus Trade
 and Competitiveness Act of 1988; Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services
 and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978; and Technology-Related
 Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities Act of 1988.
 (3) Any other Act and any regulation which refers to the Education of
 the Handicapped Act shall be considered to refer to the Individuals with
 Disabilities Education Act.
 (b) TERMINOLOGY AMENDMENTS- The Education for the Handicapped Act is
 amended in--
 (1) section 601(b)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (2) section 601(b)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (3) section 601(b)(4) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(4)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (4) section 601(b)(5) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(5)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (5) section 601(b)(5) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(5)) by striking `handicaps' each
 place such term appears and inserting `disabilities';
 (6) section 601(b)(7) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(7)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (7) section 601(b)(8) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(8)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (8) section 601(b)(9) (20 U.S.C. 1400(b)(9)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (9) section 601(c) (20 U.S.C. 1400(c)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (10) section 602(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (11) section 602(a)(13) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(13)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (12) section 602(a)(15) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(15)) by striking `handicaps'
 each place such term appears and inserting `disabilities';
 (13) section 602(a)(16) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(16)) by striking `handicapped
 child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (14) section 602(a)(17) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(17)) by striking `handicapped
 child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (15) section 602(a)(17) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(17)) by striking `handicapping'
 and inserting `disabling';
 (16) section 602(a)(19) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(19)) by striking `handicapped
 child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (17) section 602(a)(19) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(19)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (18) section 602(a)(22) (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(22)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (19) section 602(b) (20 U.S.C. 1401(b)) by striking `handicapped youth'
 and inserting `youth with a disability';
 (20) section 602(b) (20 U.S.C. 1401(b)) by striking `handicapped child'
 and inserting `child with a disability';
 (21) section 603(a) (20 U.S.C. 1402(a)) by striking `the handicapped'
 and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (22) the section heading to section 606 (20 U.S.C. 1405) by striking
 `HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS' and inserting `INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (23) section 606 (20 U.S.C. 1405) by striking `handicapped individuals'
 and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (24) section 608(b) (20 U.S.C. 1407(b)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (25) section 611(a)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1411(a)(1)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (26) section 611(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1411(a)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (27) section 611(a)(5)(A)(i) (20 U.S.C. 1411(a)(5)(A)(i)) by striking
 `handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `children
 with disabilities';
 (28) section 611(a)(5)(A)(ii) (20 U.S.C. 1411(a)(5)(A)(ii)) by striking
 `handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `children
 with disabilities';
 (29) section 611(a)(5)(A)(iii) (20 U.S.C. 1411(a)(5)(A)(iii)) by striking
 `handicapped children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (30) section 611(c)(4)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1411(c)(4)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (31) section 611(d) (20 U.S.C. 1411(d)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (32) section 611(f) (20 U.S.C. 1411(f)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (33) section 612(1) (20 U.S.C. 1412(1)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (34) section 612(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1412(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (35) section 612(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1412(2)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (36) section 612(2)(C) (20 U.S.C. 1412(2)(C)) by striking `handicapped,'
 and inserting `disabled,';
 (37) section 612(2)(C) (20 U.S.C. 1412(2)(C)) by striking `handicap,'
 and inserting `disability,';
 (38) section 612(3) (20 U.S.C. 1412(3)) by striking `handicapped children,'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities,';
 (39) section 612(3) (20 U.S.C. 1412(3)) by striking `handicaps' and inserting
 `disabilities';
 (40) section 612(4) (20 U.S.C. 1412(4)) by striking `handicapped child,'
 and inserting `child with a disability,';
 (41) section 612(5) (20 U.S.C. 1412(5)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (42) section 612(5) (20 U.S.C. 1412(5)) by striking `handicapped,' and
 inserting `disabled,';
 (43) section 612(5) (20 U.S.C. 1412(5)) by striking `handicap' and inserting
 `disability';
 (44) section 612(6) (20 U.S.C. 1412(6)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (45) section 612(7) (20 U.S.C. 1412(7)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (46) section 612(7) (20 U.S.C. 1412(7)) by striking `handicapped individuals'
 and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (47) section 613(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (48) section 613(a)(4)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(4)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (49) section 613(a)(4)(B)(i) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(4)(B)(i)) by striking
 `handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `children
 with disabilities';
 (50) section 613(a)(9)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(9)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (51) section 613(a)(11) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(11)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (52) section 613(a)(12) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(12)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (53) section 613(a)(12) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(12)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (54) section 613(a)(13)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(13)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (55) section 613(b) (20 U.S.C. 1413(b)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (56) section 613(d)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1413(d)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (57) section 613(d)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1413(d)(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (58) section 613(e) (20 U.S.C. 1413(e)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (59) section 614(a)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(1)(A)) by striking `handicapped'
 and inserting `disabled';
 (60) section 614(a)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(1)(A)) by striking `handicap'
 and inserting `disability'.
 (61) section 614(a)(1)(C) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(1)(C)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (62) section 614(a)(1)(C)(ii) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(1)(C)(ii)) by striking
 `handicapped children' each place such term appears and inserting `children
 with disabilities';
 (63) section 614(a)(1)(C)(ii) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(1)(C)(ii)) by striking
 `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities';
 (64) section 614(a)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(2)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (65) section 614(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (66) section 614(a)(5) (20 U.S.C. 1414(a)(5)) by striking `handicapped child'
 and inserting `child with a disability';
 (67) section 614(c)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1414(c)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (68) section 614(d) (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (69) section 614(e) (20 U.S.C. 1414(e)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (70) section 614(f) (20 U.S.C. 1414(f)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (71) section 615(a) (20 U.S.C. 1415(a)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (72) section 615(b)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1415(b)(1)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (73) section 615(d)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1415(d)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (74) section 615(e)(4)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1415(e)(4)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 child or youth' and inserting `child or youth with a disability';
 (75) section 615(f) (20 U.S.C. 1415(f)) by striking `handicapped children
 and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (76) section 616(a)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1416(a)(2)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (77) section 617(a)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1417(a)(1)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (78) section 617(a)(1)(D) (20 U.S.C. 1417(a)(1)(D)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (79) section 619(a)(1)(C) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(1)(C)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (80) section 619(a)(2)(A)(i) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(A)(i)) by striking
 `handicapped child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (81) section 619(a)(2)(A)(ii) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(A)(ii)) by striking
 `handicapped children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (82) section 619(a)(2)(A)(ii)(I) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(A)(ii)(I)) by striking
 `handicapped child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (83) section 619(a)(2)(A)(ii)(II) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(A)(ii)(II)) by
 striking `handicapped children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (84) section 619(a)(2)(D) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(D)) by striking `handicapped
 child' and inserting `child with a disability';
 (85) section 619(a)(2)(F)(i) (20 U.S.C. 1419(a)(2)(F)(i)) by striking
 `handicapped child' each place such term appears and inserting `child with
 a disability';
 (86) section 619(b)(1)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1419(b)(1)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (87) section 619(b)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1419(b)(3)) by striking `handicapped child'
 and inserting `child with a disability';
 (88) section 619(c)(1)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(1)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (89) section 619(c)(1)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(1)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (90) section 619(c)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (91) section 619(c)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(2)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (92) section 619(c)(3)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(3)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (93) section 619(c)(3)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1419(c)(3)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (94) the heading to part C by striking `HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS' and inserting
 `INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (95) section 621(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (96) section 621(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (97) section 621(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (98) section 621(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (99) section 621(a)(4) (20 U.S.C. 1421(a)(4)) by striking `handicapped
 infants, toddlers, children, and youth' and inserting `infants, toddlers,
 children, and youth with disabilities';
 (100) the heading to section 623 (20 U.S.C. 1423) by striking `HANDICAPPED
 CHILDREN' and inserting `CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES';
 (101) section 623(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1423(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (102) section 623(a)(1)(D) (20 U.S.C. 1423(a)(1)(D)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (103) section 623(b) (20 U.S.C. 1423(b)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (104) section 623(c) (20 U.S.C. 1423(c)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (105) section 623(d) (20 U.S.C. 1423(d)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (106) section 623(f) (20 U.S.C. 1423(f)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (107) the heading to section 624 (20 U.S.C. 1424) by striking `SEVERELY
 HANDICAPPED CHILDREN' and inserting `children with severe disabilities';
 (108) section 624(a) (20 U.S.C. 1424(a)) by striking `severely handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with severe
 disabilities';
 (109) section 624(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1424(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (110) section 624(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (111) section 625(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (112) section 625(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(2)) by striking `handicapping'
 and inserting `disabling';
 (113) section 625(a)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (114) section 625(a)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(2)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (115) section 625(a)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(2)(B)) by striking
 `nonhandicapped' and inserting `nondisabled';
 (116) section 625(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1425(a)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 persons' and inserting `persons with disabilities';
 (117) section 625(b) (20 U.S.C. 1425(b)) by striking `handicapped individuals'
 and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (118) section 625(b) (20 U.S.C. 1425(b)) by striking `visually handicapped'
 and inserting `visually disabled';
 (119) the heading to section 626 (20 U.S.C. 1426) by striking `HANDICAPPED
 CHILDREN AND YOUTH' and inserting `CHILDREN AND YOUTH WITH DISABILITIES';
 (120) section 626(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1426(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 youth' and inserting `youth with disabilities';
 (121) section 626(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1426(a)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 students' and inserting `students with disabilities';
 (122) section 626(b) (20 U.S.C. 1426(b)) by striking `handicapped youth'
 each place such term appears and inserting `youth with disabilities';
 (123) section 626(b) (20 U.S.C. 1426(b)) by striking `handicapping' each
 place such term appears and inserting `disabling';
 (124) section 626(b)(9) (20 U.S.C. 1426(b)(9)) by striking `handicapped
 students' acquisition of the skills' and inserting `the acquisition of
 skills by students with disabilities';
 (125) section 626(d)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1426(d)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 youth' and inserting `youth with disabilities';
 (126) section 626(d)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1426(d)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 students' each place such term appears and inserting `students with
 disabilities';
 (127) section 626(e) (20 U.S.C. 1426(e)) by striking `handicapped children
 and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (128) the heading to part D by striking `HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS' and
 inserting `INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (129) section 631(a)(1)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1431(a)(1)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (130) section 631(b) (20 U.S.C. 1431(b)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (131) section 631(c)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities';
 (132) section 631(c)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (133) section 631(c)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)(A)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (134) section 631(c)(2)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)(A)) by striking
 `handicapping' and inserting `disabling';
 (135) section 631(c)(2)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(2)(B)) by striking
 `handicapping' and inserting `disabling';
 (136) section 631(c)(4)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(4)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (137) section 631(c)(5)(A) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(5)(A)) by striking
 `handicapping' and inserting `disabling';
 (138) section 631(c)(5)(B) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(5)(B)) by striking `handicapped
 children's educational programs' and inserting `educational programs of
 children with disabilities';
 (139) section 631(c)(5)(D) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(5)(D)) by striking `handicapped
 child's individualized educational program' and inserting `the individualized
 educational program of a child with a disability';
 (140) section 631(c)(5)(E) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(5)(E)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (141) section 631(c)(5)(F) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(5)(F)) by striking `handicapped
 children' and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (142) section 631(c)(7) (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(7)) by striking `handicapped
 children and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (143) section 632(c) (20 U.S.C. 1432(c)) by striking `handicapped infants,
 toddlers, children, and youth' and inserting `infants, toddlers, children,
 and youth with disabilities';
 (144) section 633(c) (20 U.S.C. 1433(c)) by striking `handicapped children
 and youth' and inserting `children and youth with disabilities';
 (145) the heading to section 643 (20 U.S.C. 1443) by striking `HANDICAPPED
 CHILDREN' and inserting `CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES';
 (146) section 643 (20 U.S.C. 1443) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (147) section 644(a)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1444(a)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (148) section 644(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1444(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' each place such term appears and inserting `individuals with
 disabilities';
 (149) the heading to part F by striking `HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS' and
 inserting `INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (150) section 651(a)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1451(a)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' each place such term appears and inserting `individuals with
 disabilities';
 (151) section 652(a) (20 U.S.C. 1452(a)) by striking `handicapped individuals'
 each place such term appears and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (152) section 652(b)(5) (20 U.S.C. 1452(b)(5)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' each place such term appears and inserting `individuals with
 disabilities';
 (153) the heading to part G by striking `HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS' and
 inserting `INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (154) section 661 (20 U.S.C. 1461) by striking `handicapped students'
 each place such term appears and inserting `students with disabilities';
 (155) section 661 (20 U.S.C. 1461) by striking `handicapped infants and
 toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (156) section 661 (20 U.S.C. 1461) by striking `handicapped individuals'
 each place such term appears and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (157) the heading to part H by striking `HANDICAPPED INFANTS AND TODDLERS'
 and inserting `INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES';
 (158) section 671(a) (20 U.S.C. 1471(a)) by striking `handicapped infants and
 toddlers' each place such term appears and inserting `infants and toddlers
 with disabilities';
 (159) section 671(a)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1471(a)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 individuals' and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
 (160) section 671(b)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1471(b)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (161) section 671(b)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1471(b)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (162) section 672(1) (20 U.S.C. 1472(1)) by striking `handicapped infants
 and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (163) section 672(2) (20 U.S.C. 1472(2)) by striking `a handicapped infant's
 or toddler's developmental needs' and inserting `the developmental needs
 of an infant or toddler with a disability';
 (164) section 673 (20 U.S.C. 1473) by striking `handicapped infants and
 toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (165) section 675(d) (20 U.S.C. 1475(d)) by striking `handicapped children'
 and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (166) section 676(a) (20 U.S.C. 1476(a)) by striking `handicapped infants
 and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (167) section 676(b)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (168) section 676(b)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 infant and toddler' and inserting `infant and toddler with a disability';
 (169) section 676(b)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 infant or toddler' and inserting `infant or toddler with a disability';
 (170) section 676(b)(4) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(4)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (171) section 676(b)(6) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(6)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (172) section 676(b)(9)(D) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(9)(D)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (173) section 676(b)(14) (20 U.S.C. 1476(b)(14)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (174) section 677(a) (20 U.S.C. 1477(a)) by striking `handicapped infant
 or toddler' and inserting `infant or toddler with a disability';
 (175) section 677(d)(2) (20 U.S.C. 1477(d)(2)) by striking `handicapped
 infant or toddler' and inserting `infant or toddler with a disability';
 (176) section 677(d)(7) (20 U.S.C. 1477(d)(7)) by striking `handicapped
 toddler' and inserting `toddler with a disability';
 (177) section 678(b)(5) (20 U.S.C. 1478(b)(5)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities';
 (178) section 679 (20 U.S.C. 1479) by striking `handicapped infants and
 toddlers' each place such term appears and inserting `infants and toddlers
 with disabilities';
 (179) section 680(4) (20 U.S.C. 1480(4)) by striking `handicapped infant
 or toddler' and inserting `infant or toddler with a disability';
 (180) section 680(5) (20 U.S.C. 1480(5)) by striking `handicapped infant
 or toddler' each place such term appears and inserting `infant or toddler
 with a disability';
 (181) section 681(b) (20 U.S.C. 1481(b)) by striking `handicapped infants
 and toddlers' and inserting `infants or toddlers with disabilities';
 (182) section 682(e)(3) (20 U.S.C. 1482(e)(3)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants or toddlers with disabilities';
 (183) section 683(2) (20 U.S.C. 1483(2)) by striking `handicapped children'
 each place such term appears and inserting `children with disabilities';
 (184) section 683(2) (20 U.S.C. 1483(2)) by striking `handicapped infants
 and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities'; and
 (185) section 684(b)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1484(b)(1)) by striking `handicapped
 infants and toddlers' and inserting `infants and toddlers with disabilities'.
 (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 612(3) (20 U.S.C. 1412(3)) is amended by
 inserting `category' after `disability'.
 (d) HEAD START ACT- Section 640(d) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9835(d))
 is amended by--
 (1) striking `handicapped children' and inserting `children with
 disabilities'; and
 (2) striking `handicapping' and inserting `disabling'.
 (e) HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965- Section 465(a)(2) of the Higher Education
 Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ee(a)(2)) is amended by striking `handicapped
 children' each place such term appears and inserting `children with
 disabilities'.
 (f) IMPACT AID- Public Law 81-874 (20 U.S.C. 258) is amended in--
 (1) section 3(d)(2)(C), by striking `handicapped children' each place such
 term appears and inserting `children with disabilities'; and
 (2) section 403(10), by striking `handicapped' and inserting `disabled'.
 (g) TEMPORARY CHILD CARE FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN AND CRISIS NURSERIES
 ACT OF 1986- Section 205(d)(2) of the Temporary Child Care for Handicapped
 Children and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 5117c(d)(2)) is amended
 by striking `handicapped children' and inserting `children with disabilities'.
TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISION
SEC. 1001. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by this Act shall take effect October 1, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.