 
--S.1853--
S.1853
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To award a congressional gold medal to Laurance Spelman Rockefeller.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller followed in the tradition of his father,
 John D. Rockefeller, Jr., by enlarging and enhancing the National Park
 System of the United States, including the donation of five thousand acres
 on the Island of St. John for the Virgin Islands National Park;
 (2) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller was appointed by President Dwight
 D. Eisenhower as chairman of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review
 Commission, and his work led to the establishment of the Bureau of Outdoor
 Recreation, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the Wilderness Act, the
 National System of Scenic Rivers, and other landmark conservation programs;
 (3) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson
 as Chairman of the 1965 White House Conference on Natural Beauty, and his
 recommendations brought the concept of natural beauty to urban areas, led
 to the Highway Beautification Act, and increased State and local awareness
 of environmental issues;
 (4) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller collaborated with Lady Bird Johnson in
 her quest to beautify the United States and the Capital, and assisted her
 in the creation of the Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial Grove in Washington,
 District of Columbia;
 (5) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller served President Richard M. Nixon and
 President Gerald R. Ford as chairman of Presidential advisory committees on
 environmental quality, and served on other Federal advisory groups, including
 the Public Land Law Review Commission and the National Park Foundation;
 (6) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller served as a member of the New York State
 Council of Parks for thirty years and, as its chairman, expanded and
 modernized the State park system through an innovative bond program which
 was replicated across the Nation;
 (7) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller served as a principal advisor on
 environmental matters to his brother, Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of
 New York, and helped to develop the Adirondack Park Agency, the Hudson
 River Valley Commission, the first State water pollution bond issue, and
 the first comprehensive State environmental and conservation agency;
 (8) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller served as a member and President of the
 Palisades Interstate Park Commission for forty years and made major donations
 to expand the Palisades Interstate Park System;
 (9) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller contributed to the environmental quality
 of New York City through his efforts on behalf of the New York Zoological
 Society and the Bronx Zoo, the New York Aquarium, Central Park, and other
 parks in the city;
 (10) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller, as a part-time resident of Woodstock,
 Vermont, has contributed to the environmental aesthetics of that community
 through promotion of the placement of power lines underground, the initiation
 of watershed planning, and the preservation and display of historic properties
 and objects;
 (11) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller has been the long-time guiding force in
 three significant private conservation organizations: Jackson Hole Preserve,
 Incorporated, which has preserved park land in the Grand Tetons of Wyoming,
 the Virgin Islands, and the Hudson Valley; the American Conservation
 Association, which has provided support and encouragement for innovative
 government and private conservation programs; and Historic Hudson Valley,
 Incorporated, which has preserved outstanding historic properties of the
 Hudson Valley for public use;
 (12) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller has played an important role in creating
 or leading other private conservation organizations, including Resources
 for the Future, the National Recreation and Park Association, and the
 Conservation Foundation; and
 (13) Laurance Spelman Rockefeller, in addition to his extraordinary
 contributions to the environment in the United States, is one of the leaders
 in the fight against cancer with more than forty years of dedicated work
 and benefactions to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
 (a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED- The President is authorized to present, on
 behalf of the Congress, a gold medal of appropriate design to Laurance
 Spelman Rockefeller in recognition of his leadership on behalf of natural
 resource conservation and historic preservation.
 (b) DESIGN AND STRIKING- For purposes of the presentation referred to in
 subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall strike a gold medal with
 suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION- There is authorized to be appropriated
 not to exceed $25,000 to carry out this section.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
 (a) STRIKING AND SALE- The Secretary of the Treasury may strike and sell
 duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 2 under
 such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to
 cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery,
 and overhead expenses and the cost of the gold medal.
 (b) REIMBURSEMENT OF APPROPRIATION- The appropriation used to carry out
 section 2 shall be reimbursed out of the proceeds of sales under subsection
 (a).
SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.
 The medals struck pursuant to this Act shall be considered national medals
 for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.