 
--S.1805--
S.1805
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to reinstate oil and gas lease
LA 033164.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That subsection 31(g) of the Mineral Leasing
 Act, as amended (30 U.S.C. 188(g)), is amended by adding the following:
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any lease issued pursuant
 to section 14 of this Act shall be eligible for reinstatement under the
 terms and conditions set forth in subsections (c), (d), and (e) of this
 section, applicable to leases issued under subsection 17(c) of this Act
 (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) except, that, upon reinstatement, such lease shall
 continue for twenty years and so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced
 in paying quantities.
 `(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any lease issued pursuant
 to section 14 of the Act shall, upon renewal on or after enactment of this
 paragraph, continue for twenty years and so long thereafter as oil or gas
 is produced in paying quantities.'.
 SEC. 2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, United States oil
 and gas leases CALA 033164, CAS 019746C, and CAS 021009B shall be eligible
 for reinstatement under the terms and conditions set forth in subsections
 31 (c), (d), and (e) of the Mineral Leasing Act, as amended (30 U.S.C. 188
 (c), (d), and (e)) applicable to leases issued under section 17(c) of the
 Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) except, that, upon reinstatement,
 such lease shall continue for twenty years and so long thereafter as oil
 or gas is produced in paying quantities.
 (b) Within thirty days after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
 Interior shall give written notice by registered mail to the last lessees
 of record for the leases listed in subsection (a) of this section that said
 lessees may petition for reinstatement in accordance with the procedures and
 conditions in subsections 31 (c), (d), and (e) of the Mineral Leasing Act,
 as amended (30 U.S.C. 188 (c), (d), and (e)). The lessee shall have sixty
 days from the date of the Secretary's notice to file such petition. If the
 Secretary determines that the leases listed in subsection (a) of this section
 qualify for reinstatement pursuant to subsection 31(d) (30 U.S.C. 118(d)),
 in all respects except for compliance with the deadlines imposed by that
 provision, the Secretary shall reinstate such leases.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.