 
--S.1893--
S.1893
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To reauthorize the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Act of 1984.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization
 Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds the following:
 (1) The Environmental Protection Agency has estimated that more than
 forty-four thousand school buildings contain friable asbestos, exposing more
 than fifteen million school children and one million five hundred thousand
 school employees to unwarranted health hazards.
 (2) All elementary and secondary schools are required by the Asbestos
 Hazard Emergency Response Act to inspect for asbestos, develop an asbestos
 management plan, and implement such plan.
 (3) The Environmental Protection Agency has estimated it will cost local
 education agencies more than $3,000,000,000 to comply with the Asbestos
 Hazard Emergency Response Act.
 (4) Without a continuing program of information assistance, technical and
 scientific assistance, training, and financial support, many local educational
 agencies will be unable to carry out sufficient response actions to prevent
 the release of asbestos fibers into the air.
 (5) Without the provisions of sufficient financial support, the cost to
 local educational agencies of implementing asbestos response actions may
 have an adverse impact in their educational mission.
 (6) The effective regulation of interstate commerce for the protection of
 human health and the environment requires the continuation of programs to
 mitigate hazards of asbestos fibers and materials emitting such fibers.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are the following:
 (1) To direct the Environmental Protection Agency to maintain a program
 to assist local schools in carrying out their responsibilities under the
 Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act.
 (2) To provide continuing scientific and technical assistance to State and
 local agencies to enable them to identify and abate asbestos health hazards.
 (3) To provide financial assistance to State and local agencies for training
 of persons involved with inspections and abatement of asbestos, for conducting
 necessary reinspections of school buildings, and for the actual abatement
 of asbestos threats to the health and safety of school children or employees.
 (4) To assure that no employee of a local educational agency suffers any
 disciplinary action as a result of calling attention to potential asbestos
 hazards which may exist in schools.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO ASBESTOS SCHOOL HAZARD ABATEMENT ACT OF 1984.
 Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act a section
 or other provision is amended or repealed, such amendment or repeal shall
 be considered to be made to that section or other provision of the Asbestos
 School Hazard Abatement Act of 1984 (20 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.).
SEC. 4. ASBESTOS HAZARDS ABATEMENT PROGRAM.
 Subsection (b) of section 503 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting `educational' after `local';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting `, including parent and employee
 organizations,' after `institutions'; and
 (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
 `(3) not later than November 15 of each year for which this title is
 authorized, the development and distribution of applications, or notifications
 to all local educational agencies of the availability of application forms
 including information for obtaining such forms; and'.
SEC. 5. STATE RECORDS AND PRIORITY LISTS.
 (a) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS- Subsection (a) of section 504 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Not later than' and all that follows through `maintaining
 records on--' and inserting in lieu thereof `The Governor of each State
 shall maintain records on--';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting `and other response actions' after
 `abatement activities';
 (3) by inserting `and' after the semicolon at the end of paragraph (2); and
 (4) in paragraph (3), by striking out `subparagraph (B)' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `paragraph (2)'.
 (b) DELETION OF DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION REFERENCES- Subsection (b)(1)
 of section 504 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Not later than six months after the date of the enactment
 of this title and annually thereafter,' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `Each year, in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator,';
 (2) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking out `and the Secretary of
 the Department of Education' both places it appears;
 (3) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `and' after the semicolon at the end
 of such subparagraph; and
 (4) by striking out subparagraph (C).
 (c) DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY OF RESOURCES- Subsection (b)(4) of section
 504 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); and
 (2) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) Any additional costs to the local educational agency of meeting the
 special needs of disadvantaged students.'.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 504 is further amended by striking out
 subsection (c).
SEC. 6. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
 (a) APPLICATION APPROVAL DEADLINE- Subsection (b) of section 505 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by striking out `applications shall be submitted,'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `the Governor shall submit applications,';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following: `The Administrator
 shall approve or disapprove applications for financial assistance no later
 than April 30 of each year.'; and
 (3) by striking out paragraph (3).
 (b) RANKING APPLICATIONS- Subsection (c)(2)(B)(iv) of section 505 is amended
 by striking out `is cost-effective compared to other techniques including
 management of material containing asbestos' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `uses the least burdensome methods which protect human health and the
 environment'.
 (c) DELETION OF REFERENCE TO DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION REPORT- Subsection
 (c)(3) of such section is amended by striking out `shall consider--' and
 all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following: `shall consider the financial resources available
 to the applicant as certified by the Governor pursuant to section 504(b)(4).'.
 (d) ADDITIONAL LIMITATION- Subsection (d) of such section is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(d) LIMITATION- In no event shall financial assistance be provided under
 this title to an applicant if--
 `(1) the Administrator determines that such applicant has resources adequate
 to support an appropriate asbestos materials abatement program; or
 `(2) the applicant is not in compliance with title II of the Toxic Substances
 Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.).'.
 (e) REQUIREMENT TO DEPOSIT FUNDS INTO ASBESTOS TRUST FUND- Subsection (f)
 of such section is amended in paragraph (3) by striking out `for deposit in
 the general fund' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `for deposit
 in the Asbestos Trust Fund established by section 5 of the Asbestos Hazard
 Emergency Response Act (Public Law 99-519; 20 U.S.C. 4022)'.
 (f) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION APPROVAL- Subsection (g) of
 such section is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking out `within the five-year period beginning
 on the effective date of this title' and inserting in lieu thereof `in
 accordance with such procedures as may be developed by the Administrator';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by amending clauses (i) and (ii) to read as follows:
 `(i) the local educational agency has prepared and is implementing an asbestos
 management plan, as required under title II of the Toxic Substances Control
 Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.); and
 `(ii) all activities to be conducted with the financial assistance will
 be performed by individuals trained and accredited in conformance with
 title II of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.) and
 regulations promulgated under that title;'; and
 (3) by striking out paragraph (4).
SEC. 7. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 Section 506 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
 (2) by striking out subsection (b) and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(b) PROCEDURES- The Administrator also shall establish procedures to be used
 by local educational agencies, in programs for which financial assistance
 is made available under section 505, for--
 `(1) abating asbestos materials in school buildings;
 `(2) replacing the asbestos materials removed from school buildings with
 other appropriate building materials; and
 `(3) restoring such school buildings to conditions comparable to those
 existing before asbestos containment or removal activities were undertaken.
 `(c) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS- Nothing contained in this title shall
 be construed, interpreted, or applied to diminish in any way the level of
 protection required under any other State or Federal worker protection or
 other applicable laws.'.
SEC. 8. ANNUAL REPORT.
 (a) REPORT DEADLINE- The first sentence of section 507 is amended to read
 as follows: `During each calendar year until 1999, the Administrator shall
 prepare and submit, not later than June 1 of each year, to the Committee on
 Environment and Public Works of the Senate and to the Committee on Energy
 and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the loan and grant
 program authorized by section 505 of this title.'.
 (b) CONTENTS OF REPORT- Paragraph (6) of such section is amended by inserting
 before the period the following: `and the amount of resources needed by
 such schools, categorized by State, to abate all remaining asbestos hazards'.
SEC. 9. RECOVERY OF COSTS.
 Paragraph (2) of section 508(a) is amended by inserting after `repay to
 the United States,' the following: `by deposit in the Asbestos Trust Fund
 established by section 5 of the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act
 (20 U.S.C. 4022),'.
SEC. 10. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 511 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by inserting `, vibration,' after `damage from
 water'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(9) The term `response action' has the meaning given such term by section
 202(11) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2642(11).'.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- Paragraph (1) of section 512(a) is amended to read as
 follows:  `There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the asbestos
 abatement program not more than $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years
 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995. In addition, for such purposes and for
 each of such fiscal  years there are authorized to be appropriated out of
 the Asbestos Trust Fund established by section 5 of the Asbestos Hazard
 Emergency Response Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4022) such sums as are contained
 in such trust fund in each of such fiscal years.'.
 (b) SPECIFIC PROGRAMS- Subsection (b) of section 512 is amended by striking
 out paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(2) Of those sums appropriated for the implementation of this title, not more
 than 5 percent may be reserved during each fiscal year for the administration
 of this title and for programs including (but not limited to) the following:
 `(A) The establishment of training centers for contractors, engineers,
 school employees, parents, and other personnel to provide instruction, in
 accordance with title II of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641
 et seq.), on asbestos assessment and abatement.
 `(B) The development and dissemination of abatement guidance documents to
 assist in evaluation of potential hazards and the determination of proper
 abatement programs.
 `(C) The development of rules and regulations regarding inspection, reporting,
 and recordkeeping.
 `(D) The development of a comprehensive testing and technical assistance
 program.
 `(3) Of those sums appropriated for any fiscal year for the implementation
 of this title, the Administrator may use not more than 5 percent to provide
 grants to States for the following purposes:
 `(A) Assisting local educational agencies in performing the periodic
 reinspections and training activities required under title II of the Toxic
 Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.).
 `(B) Establishing and maintaining programs to accredit personnel performing
 asbestos inspections and response actions.'.
SEC. 12. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO ASBESTOS TRUST FUND.
 (a) AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED TO TRUST FUND- Section 5(b)(1) of the Asbestos
 Hazard Emergency Response Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-519) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `as in effect on the date of the
 enactment of this Act, and' and inserting in lieu thereof a comma;
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking out the period at the end and inserting
 in lieu thereof `, and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) amounts received as proceeds from any judgment recovered in any suit
 brought pursuant to section 508(a)(1) of the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement
 Act of 1984 (20 U.S.C. 4017(a)(1)).'
 (b) EXPENDITURES FROM TRUST FUND- Section 5(d) of such Act is amended by
 striking out `as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act'.
SEC. 13. EPA INFORMATION OR ADVISORY.
 Section 203(d) of title II of the Toxic Substances Control Act is amended
 by adding the following new paragraph at the end thereof:
 `(7) The Administrator shall, not later than 30 days after enactment of
 this paragraph, publish and distribute to all local education agencies and
 State Governors information or an advisory to--
 `(A) facilitate public understanding of the comparative risks associated with
 in-place management of asbestos-containing building materials and removals;
 `(B) promote the least burdensome response actions necessary to protect
 human health, safety, and the environment; and
 `(C) describe the circumstances in which asbestos removal is necessary to
 protect human health.
 Such information or advisory shall be based on the best available scientific
 evidence and shall be revised, republished, and redistributed as appropriate,
 to reflect new scientific findings.'.
SEC. 14. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) SECTION HEADINGS- (1) Section 501 is amended by striking out
 `SEC. 501.' and inserting the following section heading:
`SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.'.
 (2) Section 502 is amended by striking out the section heading and
 `SEC. 502.' and inserting in lieu of the section heading the following:
`SEC. 502. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.'.
 (3) Section 503 is amended by striking out the section heading and
 `SEC. 503.' and inserting in lieu of the section heading the following:
`SEC. 503. ASBESTOS HAZARD ABATEMENT PROGRAM.'.
 (4) Section 504 is amended by striking out the section heading and
 `SEC. 504.' and inserting in lieu of the section heading the following:
`SEC. 504. STATE RECORDS AND PRIORITY LISTS.'.
 (5) Section 505 is amended by striking out the section heading and
 `SEC. 505.' and inserting in lieu of the section heading the following:
`SEC. 505. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.'.
 (6) Section 506 is amended by striking out `SEC. 506.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 506. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.'.
 (7) Section 507 is amended by striking out `SEC. 507.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 507. ANNUAL REPORT.'.
 (8) Section 508 is amended by striking out `SEC. 508.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 508. RECOVERY OF COSTS.'.
 (9) Section 509 is amended by striking out `SEC. 509.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 509. EMPLOYEE PROTECTION.'.
 (10) Section 510 is amended by striking out `SEC. 510.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 510. AFFECT ON RIGHTS UNDER OTHER LAWS.'.
 (11) Section 511 is amended by striking out `SEC. 511.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 511. DEFINITIONS.'.
 (12) Section 512 is amended by striking out `SEC. 512.' and inserting the
 following section heading:
`SEC. 512. AUTHORIZATION.'.
 (b) SUBSECTION HEADINGS- (1) Section 502(a) is amended by inserting `FINDINGS-
 ' after `(a)'.
 (2) Section 502(b) is amended by inserting `PURPOSE- ' after `(b)'.
 (3) Section 503(a) is amended by striking out `(1)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `ABATEMENT PROGRAM- '.
 (4) Section 503(b) is amended by inserting `DUTIES- ' after `(b)'.
 (5) Section 504(a) is amended by inserting `RECORDS- ' after `(a)'.
 (6) Section 504(b) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `PRIORITY LIST- ' after `(b)';
 (B) by inserting `activities and other response actions' after `abatement'
 each place it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1);
 (C) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking out `section 503(b)(3) and'; and
 (D) in paragraph (4)(C), by inserting a comma after `per capita income'.
 (7) Section 505 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a), by inserting `ASSISTANCE PROGRAM- ' after `(a)';
 (B) in subsection (b), by inserting `APPLICATION SUBMISSION- ' after `(b)';
 (C) in subsection (c), by inserting `REVIEW OF APPLICATION- ' after `(c)';
 (D) in subsection (e), by inserting `AMOUNT OF LOAN OR GRANT- ' after `(e)';
 (E) in subsection (f), by inserting `LOAN AGREEMENT- ' after `(f)'; and
 (F) in subsection (g), by inserting `APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS- ' after `(g)'.
 (8) Section 506(a) is amended by inserting `REGULATIONS- ' after `(a)'.
 (9) Section 506(d) (as redesignated by section 7) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `OTHER AUTHORITY- ' after `(d)'; and
 (B) by inserting a comma after `standards' the first place it appears.
 (10) Section 508(a) is amended by inserting `LOAN CONDITION- ' after `(a)'.
 (11) Section 508(b) is amended by inserting `EXPEDITIOUS RECOVERY- ' after
 `(b)'.
 (c) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 505(b) is amended in
 paragraph (1) by striking out the comma after `educational agency'.
 (2) Section 505(c) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting `and' after the semicolon at the end of
 subparagraph (A); and
 (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting a comma after `confined space' in
 subparagraph (B)(ii) and after `techniques' in subparagraph (B)(iv).
 (3) Section 505(e) is amended by striking out `per centum' both places it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `percent'.
 (4) Section 505(g) is amended--
 (A) by redesignating the subparagraph (B) appearing after paragraph (3)
 as paragraph (4) and conforming the margin accordingly; and
 (B) by inserting a comma in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated) after
 `section 512(b)(1)'.
 (5) Section 508 is amended by striking out `sections' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `section'.
 (6) Section 511 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `For purposes of this title--' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `For purposes of this title:';
 (B) by striking out `the' at the beginning of each paragraph and inserting
 in lieu thereof `The';
 (C) by striking out the semicolon at the end of each paragraph and inserting
 in lieu thereof a period;
 (D) by striking out the word `each' in paragraph (3); and
 (E) by inserting `secondary' before `school' in paragraph (5).
SEC. 15. ASBESTOS ABATEMENT TRAINING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENT FOR WORKERS IN PUBLIC AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS-
 (1) Paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 206(a) of the Toxic Substances Control
 Act (15 U.S.C. 2646) are amended by adding before the comma at the end of
 each the following: `or in a public or commercial building'.
 (2) Clauses (i) and (iii) of section 206(b)(1)(A) of such Act are amended
 by adding before the period at the end of each the following: `or in public
 or commercial buildings'.
 (3) Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall revise the
 model contractor accreditation plan promulgated under section 206(b)(1)
 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2646(b)(1)) to increase the
 minimum number of hours of training, including additional hours of hands-on
 health and safety training, required for asbestos abatement workers and
 to make such other changes as may be necessary to implement the amendments
 made by paragraphs (1) and (2).
 (4) Section 207 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 2647) is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following:
 `(g) Any contractor who--
 `(1) inspects for asbestos-containing material in a school, public or
 commercial building;
 `(2) designs or conducts response actions with respect to friable
 asbestos-containing material in a school, public or commercial building; or
 `(3) employs individuals to conduct response actions with respect to friable
 asbestos-containing material in a school, public or commercial building;
and who fails to obtain the accreditation under section 206 of this Act, or in
the case of employees to require or provide for the accreditation required,
is liable for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day during
which the violation continues, unless such contractor is a direct employee
of the Federal Government.'.
 (b) DISCLAIMER- In exercising any authority under the Toxic Substances
 Control Act in connection with the amendment made by subsection (a) of this
 section, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall not,
 for purposes of section 4(b)(1) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act
 of 1970 (29  U.S.C. 653(b)(1)), be considered to be exercising statutory
 authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting
 occupational safety and health.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect upon the expiration of
 the 12-month period following the date of the enactment of this Act. The
 Administrator may extend the effective date for a period not to exceed one
 year if the Administrator determines that accredited asbestos contractors
 are needed to perform school-site abatement required under the Asbestos
 Hazard Emergency Response Act (15  U.S.C. 2641) and such an extension is
 necessary to ensure effective implementation of section 203 of the Toxic
 Substances Control Act.
SEC. 16. TRAINING GRANTS.
 (a)(1)  AUTHORIZATION FOR TRAINING GRANTS- Title II of the Toxic Substances
 Control Act (15  U.S.C. 2641 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
 the following:
`SEC. 216. TRAINING GRANTS.
 `(a) GRANTS- The Administrator is authorized to award grants under this
 section to nonprofit organizations that demonstrate experience in implementing
 and operating health and safety asbestos training and education programs
 for workers who are or will be engaged in asbestos-related activities
 (including State and local governments, colleges and universities,
 joint labor-management trust funds, and nonprofit government employee
 organizations) to establish and, or, operate asbestos training programs
 on a not-for-profit basis. Applications for grants under this subsection
 shall be submitted in such form and manner, and contain such information,
 as the Administrator prescribes.
 `(b) AUTHORIZATION- Of  such sums as are authorized to be appropriated
 pursuant to section 512(a) of the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Act
 of 1984 (20  U.S.C. 4011 et seq.) for the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993,
 1994, and 1995, not more than $5,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section in each such fiscal year.'.
 (2) The table of contents for title II of such Act (contained in section
 1 of such Act) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section
 215 the following new item:
`Sec. 216. Training grants.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 216 of the Toxic Substances Control Act, as added
 by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.