 
--S.1859--
S.1859
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To restructure repayment terms and conditions for loans made by the Secretary
of the Interior to the Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts for the
reconstruction of the Filene Center in Wolf Trap Farm Park in Fairfax County,
Virginia, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REPAYMENT OF LOANS MADE WITH RESPECT TO WOLF TRAP FARM PARK.
 Section 4(b) of the Wolf Trap Farm Park Act (16 U.S.C. 284c(b)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(b)'; and
 (2) by inserting at the end the following:
 `(2)(A) The term of the loans made pursuant to paragraph (1) which are
 outstanding on the effective date of this paragraph may not exceed the
 25-year period beginning on such date. The remaining obligation of such loans
 shall be paid in equal annual installments, commencing June 1, 1991, except
 that for the first 3 payments, the payment shall be $215,000 each year. In
 addition, such payments (including the first 3 payments) may be reduced
 in any year by a credit not to exceed $60,000 annually. Such credit shall
 equal 100 percent of the market value of public service tickets determined
 at prevailing Foundation box office prices. Such credit shall be allowed
 only for tickets contributed to entities holding a status referred to in
 section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
 `(B)(i) Unpaid interest on such amount which accrued before the effective
 date of this paragraph is hereby forgiven.
 `(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), there shall be no interest on the
 loan referred to in subparagraph (A) after the effective date of this
 paragraph if, within 120 days after such date, the Foundation modifies its
 agreement with the Secretary to implement this paragraph, paragraph (3),
 and section 5(c)(4). If such agreement is not modified within the 120-day
 period, interest shall accrue from the effective date of this paragraph in
 accordance with paragraph (1).
 `(C) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts paid to the Secretary
 pursuant to this paragraph may be retained until expended by the Secretary,
 in consultation with the Foundation, for the maintenance of structures,
 facilities, and equipment of the Park.
 `(D) The Secretary shall, within 120 days after the effective date of
 this paragraph, submit a payment schedule to the Foundation specifying
 the amount of each annual payment to be made by the Foundation pursuant to
 this paragraph.
 `(3) If the Foundation is in default on its obligations under this subsection
 for more than 60 consecutive days, the Secretary, acting in the public
 interest, shall terminate the cooperative agreement described in section 5. In
 the event of a major catastrophe or severe economic situation, the Secretary
 may submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United
 States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the United States Senate a recommendation that this paragraph
 be temporarily suspended. In submitting such a request, the Secretary shall
 submit clear evidence of the financial status of the Foundation.'.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON COMMINGLING FOUNDATION FUNDS AND PARK FUNDS.
 Section 5(c) of the Wolf Trap Farm Park Act (16 U.S.C. 284d(c)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding after paragraph (3) the following:
 `(4) the Foundation will maintain accounts for Foundation activities
 outside of the Park separate from Foundation accounts for presentation
 of performing arts and related programs presented at the Center and other
 areas of the Park.'.
SEC. 3. STUDY OF PARK FUTURE.
 The Wolf Trap Farm Park Act (16 U.S.C. 284 et seq.) is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
`SEC. 13. STUDY.
 `The Secretary, acting jointly with the Foundation, shall conduct a study and
 analysis of the operations and management practices which are being used to
 carry out the purposes of this Act. The study shall include analysis of the
 management relationship between the Foundation and the Park, a delineation
 of the operational responsibilities of the Foundation and the Park, and
 an analysis of the financial condition of the Foundation. Not later than
 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall
 submit a report of such study and analysis to the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate.'.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATES.
 (a) The amendments made by sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the date
 on which the Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts modifies its
 agreements entered into pursuant to the Wolf Trap Farm Park Act in a manner
 which is consistent with and takes into account the amendments made by this
 Act, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
 (b) The amendment made by section 3 shall take effect on the date of
 enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.