 
--S.1974--
S.1974
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To require new televisions to have built in decoder circuitry.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION. 1. This Act may be cited as the `Television Decoder Circuitry Act
 of 1990'.
FINDINGS
 SEC. 2. The Congress finds that--
 (1) to the fullest extent made possible by technology, deaf and
 hearing-impaired people should have equal access to the television medium;
 (2) closed-captioned television transmissions have made it possible
 for thousands of deaf and hearing-impaired people to gain access to the
 television medium, thus significantly improving the quality of their lives;
 (3) closed-captioned television will provide access to information,
 entertainment, and a greater understanding of our Nation and the world to
 over 24,000,000 people in the United States who are deaf or hearing-impaired;
 (4) closed-captioned television will provide benefits for the nearly 38
 percent of older Americans who have some loss of hearing;
 (5) closed-captioned television can assist both hearing and hearing-impaired
 children with reading and other learning skills, and improve literacy skills
 among adults;
 (6) closed-captioned television can assist those among our Nation's large
 immigrant population who are learning English as a second language with
 language comprehension;
 (7) currently, a consumer must buy a TeleCaption decoder and connect
 the decoder to a television set in order to display the closed-captioned
 television transmissions;
 (8) technology is now available to enable that closed-caption decoding
 capability to be built into new television sets during manufacture at a
 nominal cost by 1991; and
 (9) the availability of decoder-equipped television sets will significantly
 increase the audience that can be served by closed-captioned television,
 and such increased market will be an incentive to the television medium to
 provide more captioned programming.
REQUIREMENT FOR CLOSED-CAPTIONING EQUIPMENT
 SEC. 3. Section 303 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 303)
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(u) Require that apparatus designed to receive television pictures broadcast
 simultaneously with sound be equipped with built-in decoder circuitry designed
 to display closed-captioned television transmissions when such apparatus is
 manufactured in the United States or imported for use in the United States,
 and its television picture screen is 13 inches or greater in size.'.
PERFORMANCE AND DISPLAY STANDARDS
 SEC. 4. (a) Section 330 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 330) is
 amended by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c), and by inserting
 immediately after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) No person shall ship in interstate commerce, manufacture, assemble,
 or import from any foreign country into the United States, any apparatus
 described in section 303(u) of this Act except in accordance with rules
 prescribed by the Commission pursuant to the authority granted by that
 section. Such rules shall provide performance and display standards for such
 built-in decoder circuitry. Such rules shall further require that all such
 apparatus be able to receive and display closed captioning which have been
 transmitted by way of line 21 of the vertical blanking interval and which
 conform to the signal and display specifications set forth in the Public
 Broadcasting System engineering report numbered E-7709-C dated May 1980,
 as amended by the Telecaption II Decoder Module Performance Specification
 published by the National Captioning Institute, November 1985. As new
 video technology is developed, the Commission shall take such action as the
 Commission determines appropriate to ensure that closed-captioning service
 continues to be available to consumers. This subsection shall not apply to
 carriers transporting such apparatus without trading it.'.
 (b) Section 330(c) of such Act, as redesignated by subsection (a) of this
 section, is amended by deleting `and section 303(s)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `, section 303(s), and section 303(u)'.
EFFECTIVE DATE
 SEC. 5. Sections 3 and 4 of this Act shall take effect on July 1, 1993.
RULES
 SEC. 6. The Federal Communications Commission shall promulgate rules to
 implement this Act within 180 days after the date of its enactment.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.