 
--S.1999--
S.1999
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Higher Education Amendments of 1986 to clarify the administrative
procedures of the National Commission on Responsibilities for Financing
Postsecondary Education, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ADMINISTRATION OF COMMISSION.
 Section 1321 of the Higher Education Amendments of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 1221-1
 note) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g),
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
 `(e) ADMINISTRATION OF THE COMMISSION-
 `(1) RATE OF PAY- Members of the Commission who are not full-time officers
 or employees of the United States and who are not Members of Congress may,
 while serving on business of the Commission, be compensated at a rate
 not to exceed the rate specified at the time of such service for Grade
 GS-18 of the General Schedule as authorized by section 5332 of title 5,
 United States Code, for each day, or any part of a day, they are engaged
 in the actual performance of Commission duties, including travel time;
 and while so serving away from their homes or regular places of business,
 all members of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses, including
 per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5,
 United States Code, for persons in Government service employed intermittently.
 `(2) TEMPORARY EXEMPTION- Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the
 Commission, the Chairperson, without regard to the provisions of title 5,
 United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service and
 without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter
 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates,
 shall have the power to--
 `(A) appoint a Director or Executive Director who shall be paid at a rate
 not to exceed the rate of basic pay for GS-18 of the General Schedule; and
 `(B) appoint and fix the compensation at a rate not to exceed the rate
 payable at the GS-18 rate of such other personnel as the Chairperson
 considers necessary.
 `(3) AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT- Subject to the Federal Property and Administrative
 Services Act of 1949, as amended, the Commission is authorized to enter into
 contracts with Federal and State agencies, private firms, institutions,
 and individuals for the conduct of activities necessary to the discharge
 of its duties and responsibilities.
 `(4) SOURCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT- Financial and administrative support
 services (including those related to budget and accounting, financial
 reporting, payroll, and personnel) shall be provided to the Commission by
 the General Services Administration (or other appropriate organization)
 for which payment shall be made in advance, or by reimbursement, from funds
 of the Commission, in such amounts as may be agreed by the Chairperson of
 the Commission and the Administrator of General Services.
 `(5) AUTHORITY TO HIRE EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Commission is authorized
 to procure temporary and intermittent services of experts and consultants as
 are necessary to the extent authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
 States Code, but at rates not to exceed the rate specified at the time
 of such service for grade GS-18. Experts and consultants may be employed
 without compensation if they agree to do so in advance.
 `(6) AUTHORITY FOR DETAIL OF EMPLOYEES- Upon request of the Commission,
 the head of any Federal agency is authorized to detail on a reimbursable
 basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist the
 Commission in carrying out its duties under this section.'.
SEC. 2. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.
 Subsection (g) of section 1321 of the Higher Education Amendments of 1986,
 as redesignated by section 1 of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
 `(g) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate 2 years after the first
 meeting of the members.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.