 
--S.2059--
S.2059
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the Weir Farm National Historic Site in the State of Connecticut.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Weir Farm National Historic Site Establishment
 Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (2) The term `historic site' means the Weir Farm National Historic Site
 established in section 4.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Weir Farm in Connecticut is listed on the National Register of
 Historic Places as a historic site associated with major American artists
 and several artistic developments;
 (2) the Weir Farm, acquired in 1882 by J. Alden Weir, a founder and principal
 exponent of American Impressionism, has been continuously occupied by
 working artists and their families who have maintained its significance
 and integrity as a historic site; and
 (3) the Weir Farm, including the house, barns, studios, pond, field, and
 woods thereon, and the approximately 113 acres of adjacent natural areas
 owned by the Nature Conservancy and the Town of Ridgefield, Connecticut,
 provide opportunities for illustrating and interpreting cultural themes of
 our Nation's heritage and provide opportunities for public use and enjoyment.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to preserve a significant site of the tradition of American Impressionism;
 (2) to maintain the integrity of a setting that inspired artistic expression
 and encourages public enjoyment; and
 (3) to offer opportunities for the inspirational benefit and education of
 the American people.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF WEIR FARM NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- There is established, as a unit of the National Park System,
 the Weir Farm National Historic Site in the State of Connecticut.
 (b) DESCRIPTION- The historic site shall consist of--
 (1) the approximately 2-acre core parcel containing the Weir house, studio,
 and barn; and
 (2) the approximately 60 acres and improvements thereon owned by the State
 of Connecticut;
both as generally depicted on a map entitled `Land Ownership Map, Weir Farm
Historic Site', Figure 5, dated October 1989, as contained in the National
Park Service Weir Farm Suitability/Feasibility Study, February, 1990. Such
map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the National Park Service.
SEC. 5. ACQUISITION OF REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY AND SERVICES.
 (a) REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY- The Secretary is authorized to acquire by
 donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds, the
 lands and improvements within the boundaries of the historic site, except
 that any such lands and improvements owned by the State of Connecticut may be
 acquired only by donation. The Secretary may also acquire by the same methods
 personal property associated with, and appropriate for, the interpretation
 of the historic site: Provided, That the Secretary may acquire works of
 art associated with the Weir family, J. Alden Weir, and other artists who
 lived at or visited the site only by donation or purchase with donated funds.
 (b) OTHER PROPERTY, FUNDS, AND SERVICES- The Secretary is authorized to
 accept and use donated funds, property, and services to carry out this Act.
SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION OF HISTORIC SITE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall administer the historic site in accordance
 with this Act and the laws generally applicable to units of the National
 Park System, including the Act entitled `An Act to establish a National Park
 Service, and for other purposes', approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1
 et seq.), and the Act entitled `An Act to provide for the preservation of
 historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national
 historic significance, and for other purposes', approved August 21, 1935
 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), except that the Secretary shall take no action
 with respect to the 60 acres owned by the State of Connecticut within the
 boundaries of the historic site until such time as the State has transferred
 all right, title, and interests therein to the Secretary.
 (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- (1) The Secretary may consult and enter into
 cooperative agreements with the Weir Farm Heritage Trust, the State of
 Connecticut, the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and other organizations
 and groups in the development, presentation and funding of art exhibits,
 resident artist programs, and other appropriate activities related to the
 preservation, development, and use of the historic site.
 (2) The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with the
 Nature Conservancy and the towns of Ridgefield and Wilton for the purpose of
 coordinating activities on the historic site with activities on the Nature
 Conservancy's Weir Preserve and lands adjoining the historic site owned by
 the towns.
 (c) EXHIBITS- The Secretary may display, and accept for the purpose of
 display, works of art associated with J. Alden Weir, the Weir Farm, and the
 American Impressionist movement, as may be necessary for the interpretation
 of the historic site.
 (d) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- Within 2 complete fiscal years after the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
 Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States
 Senate a general management plan for the historic site. The plan shall be
 prepared in accordance with section 12(b) of the Act of August 18, 1970
 (16 U.S.C. 1a-1 through 1a-7) and other applicable law.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act, except that not more than $1,500,000
 may be appropriated for the acquisition of real and personal property.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.