 
--S.2017--
S.2017
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide a permanent endowment for the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship
Program.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to provide a permanent endowment for the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship
 Program;
 (2) to honor Dwight D. Eisenhower for his character, courage, and patriotism,
 and for his leadership based on moral integrity and trust;
 (3) to pay tribute to President Eisenhower's leadership in war and peace,
 through his diverse understanding of history, practical affairs, and the
 hearts of humankind;
 (4) to address America's need for the best possible higher education of its
 young talent for a competitive world which shares a common and endangered
 environment;
 (5) to advance the network of friendship and trust already established in
 President Eisenhower's name, so that it may continue to grow to the imminent
 challenges of the 21st century;
 (6) to complete Dwight David Eisenhower's crusade to liberate the people's
 of Europe from oppression;
 (7) to deepen and expand relationships with European nations developing
 democracy and self-determination; and
 (8) to honor President Dwight D. Eisenhower on the occasion of the centennial
 of his birth through permanent endowment of an established fellowship program,
 the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, to increase educational opportunities
 for young leaders in preparation for and enhancement of their professional
 careers, and advancement of peace through international understanding.
SEC. 3. EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM TRUST FUND.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Treasury of the United States
 a trust fund to be known as the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust
 Fund (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `fund'). The fund shall
 consist of amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 5 of this Act.
 (b) INVESTMENT IN INTEREST BEARING OBLIGATIONS- It shall be the duty of
 the Secretary of the Treasury to invest in full amounts appropriated to the
 fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the
 United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interests
 by the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be acquired
 (1) on original issue at the issue price, or (2) by purchase of outstanding
 obligations at the market price. The purposes for which obligations of the
 United States may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, are hereby extended
 to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations exclusively to the
 fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a rate equal to the
 average rate of interest, computed as to the end of the calendar month next
 preceding the date of such issue borne by all marketable interest-bearing
 obligations of the United States then forming a part of the public debt;
 except that where such average rate is not a multiple of one-eighth of
 1 percent, the rate of interest of such special obligations shall be the
 multiple of one-eighth of 1 percent next lower than such average rate. Such
 special obligations shall be issued only if the Secretary determines that the
 purchase of other interest-bearing obligations of the United States, or of
 obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States
 or original issue or at the market price, is not in the public interest.
 (c) SALE AND REDEMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS- Any obligation acquired by the fund
 (except special obligations issued exclusively to the fund) may be sold
 by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price, and such special
 obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued interest.
 (d) CREDIT TO THE FUND OF INTEREST AND PROCEEDS OF SALE OR REDEMPTION-
 The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any
 obligations held in the fund shall be credited to and form a part of the fund.
SEC. 4. EXPENDITURE AND AUDIT OF TRUST FUND.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING- For each fiscal year, there is authorized to be
 appropriated from the fund to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated,
 the interest and earnings of the fund.
 (b) ACCESS TO BOOKS, RECORDS, ETC. BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE- The
 activities of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, may be
 audited by the General Accounting Office under such rules and regulations
 as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. The
 representatives of the General Accounting Office shall have access to all
 books, accounts, records, reports, and files and all other papers, things,
 or property belonging to or in use by Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships,
 Incorporated, pertaining to such activities and necessary to facilitate
 the audit.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 To provide a permanent endowment for the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship
 Program, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Eisenhower Exchange
 Fellowships Program Trust Fund--
 (1) $5,000,000; and
 (2) the lesser of--
 (A) $2,500,000, or
 (B) an amount equal to contributions to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships,
 Incorporated, from private sector sources during the 4-year period beginning
 on the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. USE OF INCOME ON THE ENDOWMENT.
 (a) REQUIREMENT FOR FUNDING OF UNITED STATES FELLOWS IN EMERGING EUROPEAN
 DEMOCRACIES- For any fiscal year, not less than 50 percent of the amounts
 made available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pursuant
 to section 4(a) shall be available only to assist United States fellows in
 traveling to and studying in emerging European democracies.
 (b) LIMITATION ON STUDY IN UNITED STATES- For any fiscal year, not more than
 50 percent of the amounts made available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships,
 Incorporated, pursuant to section 4(a) shall be available to assist foreign
 fellows in traveling to and studying in the United States.
 (c) AGRICULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM- For any fiscal year, as may be determined
 by Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, a portion of the amounts
 made available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pursuant to
 section 4(a) shall be used to provide fellowships for agricultural exchange
 programs for farmers from the United States and foreign countries.
 (d) PARTICIPATION BY UNITED STATES MINORITY POPULATIONS- In order to ensure
 that the United States fellows participating in programs of the Eisenhower
 Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, are representative of the cultural,
 ethnic, and racial diversity of the American people, of the amounts made
 available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pursuant to
 section 4(a) which are obligated and expended for United States fellowship
 programs, not less than 10 percent shall be available only for participation
 by individuals who are representative of United States minority populations.
SEC. 7. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 For any fiscal year for which Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated,
 receive funds pursuant to section 4(a) of this Act, Eisenhower Exchange
 Fellowships, Incorporated, shall prepare and transmit to the President and
 the Congress a report of its activities for such fiscal year.
SEC. 8. EXTENSION OF AU PAIR PROGRAMS.
 The United States Information Agency shall continue to implement the au pair
 programs designated by the Director of United States Information Agency as
 of July 10, 1990, until such au pair programs are authorized and implemented
 by another agency of the United States Government.
SEC. 9. FASCELL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Fascell Fellowship
 Amendments Act of 1990'.
 (b) Service of Fascell Fellows-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 1002(a) of the Fascell Fellowship Act (22
 U.S.C. 4901(a); hereinafter in this section referred to as `the Act')
 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `formerly' and inserting in lieu thereof `which would
 otherwise be'; and
 (B) by striking out `in the Soviet Union or Eastern European countries'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `abroad'.
 (2) PURPOSE OF THE FELLOWSHIPS- Section 1002(c) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4901(c))
 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `in the Soviet Union or an Eastern European country'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `abroad'; and
 (B) by striking out `Soviet or Eastern European' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `that country's'.
 (3) INDIVIDUALS WHO MAY RECEIVE A FELLOWSHIP- Section 1002(d) of the Act (22
 U.S.C. 4901(d)) is amended by striking out `Soviet or Eastern European area
 studies or languages' and inserting in lieu thereof `international affairs,
 foreign languages, or career and professional experience or interest in
 international affairs,'.
 (c) Fellowship Board-
 (1) MEMBERSHIP- Section 1003(b) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4902(b)) is amended
 in paragraph (4) by striking out `Soviet or Eastern European area studies
 or languages,' and inserting in lieu thereof `international affairs or
 foreign languages,'.
 (2) TRANSITION- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply only to
 appointments to the Fascell Fellowship Board after the date of the enactment
 of this section and shall not affect the service of members of such board
 on the date of the enactment of this section.
 (d) POSTING OF FELLOWS- Section 1005(a) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4904(a))
 is amended by striking out `in the Soviet Union or Eastern Europe' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `abroad'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.