 
--S.2056--
S.2056
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish a program of grants for the development of State plans for meeting
the objectives established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services
for the health status of the population of the United States for the year 2000.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Year 2000 Health Objectives Planning Act'.
SEC. 2. GRANTS FOR STATE PLANS REGARDING HEALTH OBJECTIVES FOR YEAR 2000.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the Director of the Centers for Disease Control, shall make grants to the
 States for the purpose of assisting each State receiving such a grant with
 the development of a State plan for improving the health status of the
 population of the State.
 (b) STATEWIDE ASSESSMENT REGARDING YEAR 2000 Health Objectives-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a)
 unless the State involved agrees subject to paragraph (2), that in carrying
 out the purpose described in such subsection the State will conduct a
 statewide assessment to determine the extent to which the health status of
 the population of the State does not meet the objectives established by the
 Secretary for the health status of the population of the United States for
 the year 2000.
 (2) Designation of required determinations regarding objectives-
 (A) The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) unless the State
 involved agrees that the statewide assessment under paragraph (1) will be
 conducted with respect to each of the year 2000 objectives designated under
 subparagraph (B).
 (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Secretary, acting through the
 Director of the Centers for Disease Control and in consultation with the
 States, shall designate the year 2000 objectives with respect to which the
 statewide assessments under paragraph (1) are required to be conducted.
 (C) Subject to compliance with subparagraph (A), a statewide assessment
 under paragraph (1) may be conducted by a State with respect to year 2000
 objectives that are not designated under subparagraph (B).
 (c) PLAN FOR MEETING OBJECTIVES- The Secretary may not make a grant under
 subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that--
 (1) in the case of each year 2000 objective that the statewide assessment
 under subsection (b)(1) indicates is not met, the State plan developed
 under subsection (a) will specify the activities that should be carried
 out in order to meet or exceed the objective;
 (2) with respect to such activities, the plan will make recommendations
 for the State and for political subdivisions of the State, including
 recommendations for establishing or modifying public health and health
 financing programs, for funding levels of such programs, for maintaining
 sufficient numbers of appropriate personnel, for collecting appropriate
 data, and for coordinating the public health activities of the State and
 such subdivisions; and
 (3) not later  than April 1, 1992, the State will submit to the Secretary
 a copy of the completed plan, including a copy of the statewide assessment
 under subsection (b)(1).
SEC. 3. CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS REGARDING RECEIPT OF GRANT.
 (a) SUBMISSION OF STATEMENT REGARDING INTENDED SCOPE OF STATE ASSESSMENT-
 The Secretary may not make a grant under section 2(a) unless the State
 submits to the Secretary a statement describing the intended scope of the
 statewide assessment under section 2(b)(1) that will be conducted with the
 grant, including a specification of the year 2000 objectives with respect
 to which the assessment will be conducted.
 (b) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may not make a grant under
 section 2(a) unless--
 (1) an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary;
 (2) the application contains the statement required in subsection (a); and
 (3) the application otherwise is made in such manner, and contains such
 agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be
 necessary to carry out this Act.
SEC. 4. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 (a) AMOUNT OF GRANT- In the case of any State whose application under section
 3(b) is approved, the amount of the grant under section 2(a) to the State
 shall, subject to the extent of amounts made available in appropriations
 Acts, be the greater of--
 (1) $100,000; and
 (2) the amount determined by the Secretary, after consideration of the
 statement submitted by the State pursuant to section 3(a), to be appropriate
 with respect to carrying out the purpose described in section 2(a).
 (b) Certain Assistance From Secretary-
 (1) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may, directly or through grants or
 contracts, provide technical assistance to States regarding the planning,
 development, and operation of programs to carry out the purpose described
 in section 2(a).
 (2) PROVISION OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES IN LIEU OF GRANT PAYMENTS-
 (A) Upon the request of a State receiving payments from a grant under section
 2(a), the Secretary may, subject to subparagraph (B), provide supplies,
 equipment, and services for the purpose of aiding the State in carrying out
 such section and, for such purpose, may detail to the State any officer or
 employee of the Department of Health and Human Services.
 (B) With respect to a request described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary
 shall reduce the amount of payments under section 2(a) to the State by an
 amount equal to the costs of detailing personnel and the fair market value of
 any supplies, equipment, or services provided by the Secretary. The Secretary
 shall, for the payment of expenses incurred in complying with such request,
 expend the amounts withheld.
 (c) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than September 30, 1992, the Secretary
 shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
 Senate, a report summarizing the statewide assessments and State plans
 received by the Secretary under section 2(c)(3).
SEC. 5. UNIFORM USE OF HEALTH-STATUS INDICATORS AND OF METHODS OF COLLECTING
AND REPORTING DATA.
 The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease
 Control and in consultation with the States, shall--
 (1) develop a set of health-status indicators appropriate for Federal,
 State, and local health agencies to measure health status;
 (2) develop model methods of collecting and reporting data on whether the
 year 2000 objectives are being met;
 (3) encourage the uniform use by States and other entities of such methods
 and such indicators in order to ensure the utility and comparability of
 such data; and
 (4) develop national data sources to measure progress toward meeting the
 year 2000 objectives.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act:
 (1) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services.
 (2) STATE- The term `State' means each of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
 American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the
 Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
 (3) YEAR 2000 OBJECTIVES- The term `year 2000 objectives' means the objectives
 described in section 2(b)(1).
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 For the purpose of carrying out this Act, there is authorized to be
 appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1991.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.