 
--S.2088--
S.2088
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To extend titles I and II of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be referred to as the `Energy Policy and Conservation Act
 Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
 The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 104(b)(1) by striking out `September 15, 1990' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `September 30, 1994';
 (2) in section 171, by striking out `September 15, 1990' each place it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `September 30, 1994'; and
 (3) in section 281, by striking out `September 15, 1990' each place it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `September 30, 1994'.
SEC. 3. SEVERE DOMESTIC ENERGY SUPPLY INTERRUPTIONS.
 (a) DEFINITIONS- Section 3(8)(C) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
 (42 U.S.C. 6202(8)(C)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(i)' after `from' the first place it appears; and
 (2) by striking out `or from' and inserting in lieu thereof: `(ii) an
 interruption in the supply of domestic petroleum products, or (iii)'.
 (b) DRAWDOWN- Section 161 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 6241) is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
 `(h)(1) If the President finds that--
 `(A) a circumstance, other than those described in subsection (d), exists
 that constitutes, or is likely to become, a domestic energy supply shortage
 of significant scope or duration; and
 `(B) action taken under this subsection would assist directly and
 significantly in preventing or reducing the adverse impact of such shortage,
then the Secretary may, subject to the limitations of paragraph (2), draw
down and distribute the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
 `(2) In no case may the Reserve be drawn down under this subsection--
 `(A) in excess of an aggregate of 30,000,000 barrels with respect to each
 such shortage;
 `(B) for more than 60 days with respect to each such shortage;
 `(C) if there are fewer than 500,000,000 barrels of petroleum product stored
 in the Reserve; or
 `(D) below the level of an aggregate of 500,000,000 barrels of petroleum
 product stored in the Reserve.
 `(3) During any period in which there is a drawdown and distribution of
 the Reserve in effect under this subsection, the Secretary shall transmit
 a monthly report to the Congress containing an account of the drawdown and
 distribution of petroleum products under this subsection and an assessment
 of its effect.
 `(4) In no case may the drawdown under this subsection be extended beyond
 60 days with respect to any domestic energy supply shortage.'.
SEC. 4. ENLARGEMENT OF SPR TO ONE BILLION BARRELS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 159 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42
 U.S.C. 6239) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(i) No later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of the Energy
 Policy and Conservation Act Amendments of 1990, the Secretary shall transmit
 to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
 Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on
 the results of negotiations undertaken pursuant to part C. The report shall--
 `(1) describe the terms of any contracts negotiated pursuant to part C
 and any cost savings that would result from such contracts relative to the
 costs of acquisition pursuant to part B; and
 `(2) give all available information on any cost savings that would likely
 result from additional contracts that could be negotiated pursuant to part
 C for completion of the storage of one billion barrels of petroleum product
 in the Reserve relative to the costs of acquisition pursuant to part B.
 `(j) No later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of the Energy
 Policy and Conservation Act Amendments of 1990, the Secretary shall amend
 the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan to prescribe plans for completion of
 storage of one billion barrels of petroleum product in the Reserve. Such
 amendment shall comply with the provisions of this section and shall
 detail the Secretary's plans for the design, construction, leasing or other
 acquisition, and fill of storage and related facilities of the Reserve to
 achieve such one billion barrels of storage. Such amendment shall not be
 subject to the congressional review procedures contained in section 551. In
 assessing alternatives in the development of such plans, the Secretary
 shall consider leasing privately owned storage facilities.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 160 of the Energy Policy and Conservation
 Act (42 U.S.C. 6240) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)(3)--
 (A) by striking out `fiscal years 1988 and 1989' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `fiscal year 1994'; and
 (B) by striking out `at least 750,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `1,000,000,000'; and
 (2) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting before the period at the end of
 subparagraph (B) the following: `and the Secretary has amended the Strategic
 Petroleum Reserve Plan as required by section 159(j)'.
 (c) FACILITIES- Section 160(d)(1)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 6240(d)(1)(A))
 is amended by inserting after `within' the following: `Government owned
 facilities of'.
SEC. 5. PREDRAWDOWN DIVERSION OF SPR OIL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 160 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
 (42 U.S.C. 6240) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(f) If the Secretary finds that a severe energy supply interruption may be
 imminent, the Secretary may suspend the acquisition of petroleum product for,
 and the injection of petroleum product into, the Reserve and may sell any
 petroleum product acquired for and in transit to, but not injected into,
 the Reserve.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 167(b)(3) of such Act (42
 U.S.C. 6247(b)(3)) is amended by inserting after `(g) of such section' the
 following: `, or from the sale of petroleum products under section 160(f)'.
 (2) Section 167(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 6247(d)) is amended by inserting
 after `(g) of such section' the following: `, and from the sale of petroleum
 products under section 160(f)'.
 (3) Section 160(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 6240(d)) is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
 `(4) For any fiscal year in which purchases of petroleum products are
 suspended, or the sale of petroleum products is carried out, under subsection
 (f), the fill-rate requirements of paragraph (1)(B) shall be reduced by--
 `(A) the amount of petroleum products are acquired for such fiscal year as
 a result of such suspension; plus
 `(B) the amount of petroleum products sold under such subsection during
 such fiscal year.'.
SEC. 6. LEASING AUTHORITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42
 U.S.C. 6211 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 152, by inserting `and part C' after `this part' in the
 material preceding paragraph (1);
 (2) by redesignating part C as part D;
 (3) by redesignating section 171 (after the amendment is made by section 2(2)
 of this Act) as section 181; and
 (4) by adding the following new part after part B:
`Part C--Authority To Contract for Petroleum Product Not Owned by the
United States
`CONTRACTING FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCT AND FACILITIES
 `SEC. 171. (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to the other provisions of this part,
 the Secretary may contract--
 `(1) for storage, in otherwise unused Strategic Petroleum Reserve facilities,
 of petroleum product not owned by the United States; and
 `(2) for storage, in storage facilities other than those of the Reserve,
 of petroleum product either owned or not owned by the United States.
 `(b) CONDITIONS- (1) Petroleum product stored pursuant to such a contract
 shall, until the expiration, termination, or other conclusion of the contract,
 be a part of the Reserve and subject to the Secretary's authority under
 part B.
 `(2) The Secretary may enter into a contract for storage of petroleum
 product under subsection (a) only if--
 `(A) the Secretary determines (i) that entering into one or more contracts
 under such subsection would achieve benefits comparable to the acquisition
 of an equivalent amount of petroleum product, or an equivalent volume of
 storage capacity, for the Reserve under part B, and (ii) that, because of
 budgetary constraints, the acquisition of an equivalent amount of petroleum
 product or volume of storage space for the Reserve cannot be accomplished
 under part B; and
 `(B) the Secretary notifies each House of the Congress of such determination
 and includes in such notification the same information required under section
 154(e) with regard to storage and related facilities proposed to be included,
 or petroleum product proposed to be stored, in the Reserve.
 `(3) A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall not limit the
 discretion of the President or the Secretary to conduct a drawdown and
 distribution of the Reserve.
 `(4) A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall include a provision
 that the obligation of the United States to make payments under the contract
 in any fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations.
 `(c) CHARGE FOR STORAGE- The Secretary may store petroleum product pursuant
 to a contract entered into under subsection (a)(1) with or without charge
 or may pay a fee for its storage.
 `(d) DURATION- Contracts entered into under subsection (a) may be of such
 duration as the Secretary considers necessary or appropriate.
 `(e) BINDING ARBITRATION- The Secretary may agree to binding arbitration
 of disputes under any contract entered into under subsection (a).
`IMPLEMENTATION
 `SEC. 172. (a) AMENDMENT TO PLAN NOT REQUIRED- An amendment of the Strategic
 Petroleum Reserve Plan is not required for any action taken under this part.
 `(b) FILL RATE REQUIREMENT- For purposes of section 160(d)(1), any petroleum
 product stored in the Reserve under this part that is removed from the Reserve
 at the expiration, termination, or other conclusion of the agreement shall
 be considered to be part of the Reserve until the beginning of the fiscal
 year following the fiscal year in which the petroleum product was removed.
 `(c) LEGAL STATUS REGARDING OTHER LAW- Petroleum product and facilities
 contracted for under this part have the same status as petroleum product
 and facilities owned by the United States for all purposes associated with
 the exercise of the laws of any State or political subdivision thereof.
 `(d) RETURN OF PRODUCT- At such time as the petroleum product contracted
 for under this part is withdrawn from the Reserve upon the expiration,
 termination, or other conclusion of the contract, such petroleum product
 (or the equivalent quantity of petroleum product withdrawn from the Reserve
 pursuant to the contract) shall be deemed, for purposes of determining the
 extent to which such product is thereafter subject to any Federal, State,
 or local law or regulation, not to have left the place where such petroleum
 product was located at the time it was originally committed to a contract
 under this part.
`CONTRACTS FOR WHICH NO IMPLEMENTING LEGISLATION IS NEEDED
 `SEC. 173. (a) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- In the case of contracts entered into
 under this part, and amendments to such contracts, for which no implementing
 legislation is needed, the Secretary shall transmit each such contract and
 each such amendment to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee
 on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and to the Committee on
 Appropriations and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives within 30 days after the signing thereof.
 `(b) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) Any such contract, and any such amendment, shall
 not become effective until the end of the 30-day period of continuous
 session of Congress after the date of such transmittal, except that such
 contract may become effective without regard to such period if the President
 determines that such contract is required as a result of a severe energy
 supply interruption or by obligations of the United States under the
 international energy program.
 `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1)--
 `(A) continuity of session is broken only by an adjournment of Congress
 sine die; and
 `(B) the days on which either House is not in session because of an
 adjournment of more than three days to a day certain are excluded in the
 computation of the calendar-day period involved.
`CONTRACTS FOR WHICH IMPLEMENTING LEGISLATION IS NEEDED
 `SEC. 174. (a) IN GENERAL- (1) In the case of contracts entered into
 under this part, and amendments to such contracts, for which implementing
 legislation will be needed, the Secretary may transmit an implementing bill
 to both Houses of the Congress.
 `(2) In the Senate, any such bill shall be considered in accordance with
 the provisions of this section.
 `(3) For purposes of this section--
 `(A) the term `implementing bill' means a bill introduced in either House
 of Congress with respect to one or more contracts or amendments to contracts
 submitted to the House of Representatives and the Senate under this section
 and which contains--
 `(i) a provision approving such contracts or amendments, or both; and
 `(ii) legislative provisions that are necessary or appropriate for the
 implementation of such contracts or amendments, or both; and
 `(B) the term `implementing revenue bill' means an implementing bill which
 contains one or more revenue measures by reason of which it must originate
 in the House of Representatives.
 `(b) CONSULTATION- The Secretary shall consult, at the earliest possible
 time and on a continuing basis, with each committee of the House and the
 Senate that has jurisdiction over all matters expected to be affected by
 legislation needed to implement any such contract.
 `(c) EFFECTIVE DATE- Each contract and each amendment to a contract for
 which an implementing bill is necessary may become effective only if--
 `(1) the Secretary, not less than 30 days before the day on which such
 contract is entered into, notifies the House of Representatives and the
 Senate of the intention to enter into such a contract and promptly thereafter
 publishes notice of such intention in the Federal Register;
 `(2) after entering into the contract, the Secretary transmits a report
 to the House of Representatives and to the Senate containing a copy of the
 final text of such contract together with--
 `(A) the implementing bill, and an explanation of how the implementing bill
 changes or affects existing law; and
 `(B) a statement of the reasons why the contract serves the interests of
 the United States and why the implementing bill is required or appropriate
 to implement the contract; and
 `(3) the implementing bill is enacted into law.
 `(d) RULES OF THE SENATE- Subsections (e) through (h) are enacted by the
 Congress--
 `(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, and as such they
 are deemed a part of the rules of the Senate but applicable only with respect
 to the procedure to be followed in the Senate in the case of implementing
 bills and implementing revenue bills described in subsection (a), and
 they supersede other rules only to the extent that they are inconsistent
 therewith; and
 `(2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of the Senate to
 change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of the Senate) at
 any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any
 other rule of the Senate.
 `(e) INTRODUCTION AND REFERRAL IN THE SENATE- (1) On the day on which
 an implementing bill is transmitted to the Senate under this section,
 the implementing bill shall be introduced (by request) in the Senate by
 the majority leader of the Senate, for himself or herself and the minority
 leader of the Senate, or by Members of the Senate designated by the majority
 leader and minority leader of the Senate.
 `(2) If the Senate is not in session on the day on which such an agreement
 is submitted, the implementing bill shall be introduced in the Senate,
 as provided in the paragraph (1), on the first day thereafter on which the
 Senate is in session.
 `(3) Such bills shall be referred by the presiding officer of the Senate to
 the appropriate committee, or, in the case of a bill containing provisions
 within the jurisdiction of two or more committees, jointly to such committees
 for consideration of those provisions within their respective jurisdictions.
 `(f) CONSIDERATION OF AMENDMENTS TO IMPLEMENTING BILL PROHIBITED IN THE
 SENATE- (1) No amendments to an implementing bill shall be in order in
 the Senate, and it shall not be in order in the Senate to consider an
 implementing bill that originated in the House if such bill passed the
 House containing any amendment to the introduced bill.
 `(2) No motion to suspend the application of this subsection shall be in
 order in the Senate; nor shall it be in order in the Senate for the Presiding
 Officer to entertain a request to suspend the application of this subsection
 by unanimous consent.
 `(g) DISCHARGE IN THE SENATE- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3),
 if the committee or committees of the Senate to which an implementing
 bill has been referred have not reported it at the close of the 30th day
 after its introduction, such committee or committees shall be automatically
 discharged from further consideration of the bill, and it shall be placed
 on the appropriate calendar.
 `(2) A vote on final passage of the bill shall be taken in the Senate
 on or before the close of the 15th day after the bill is reported by the
 committee or committees to which it was referred or after such committee
 or committees have been discharged from further consideration of the bill.
 `(3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply in the Senate
 to an implementing revenue bill. An implementing revenue bill received from
 the House shall be, subject to subsection (f)(1), referred to the appropriate
 committee or committees of the Senate. If such committee or committees have
 not reported such bill at the close of the 15th day after its receipt by the
 Senate, such committee or committees shall be automatically discharged from
 further consideration of such bill and it shall be placed on the calendar. A
 vote on final passage of such bill shall be taken in the Senate on or before
 the close of the 15th day after such bill is reported by the committee or
 committees of the Senate to which it was referred, or after such committee
 or committees have been discharged from further consideration of such bill.
 `(4) For purposes of this subsection, in computing a number of days in the
 Senate, there shall be excluded any day on which the Senate is not in session.
 `(h) FLOOR CONSIDERATION IN THE SENATE- (1) A motion in the Senate to
 proceed to the consideration of an implementing bill shall be privileged
 and not debatable. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, nor
 shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is
 agreed to or disagreed to.
 `(2) Debate in the Senate on an implementing bill, and all debatable motions
 and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than
 20 hours. The time shall be equally divided between, and controlled by,
 the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
 `(3) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal in connection
 with an implementing bill shall be limited to not more than one hour to be
 equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the
 bill, except that in the event the manager of the bill is in favor of any
 such motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto shall be controlled by
 the minority leader or his designee. Such leaders, or either of them, may,
 from time under their control on the passage of an implementing bill, allot
 additional time to any Senator during the consideration of any debatable
 motion or appeal.
 `(4) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate is not debatable. A
 motion to recommit an implementing bill is not in order.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The table of contents of the Energy Policy and
 Conservation Act is amended--
 (1) by adding at the end of the items for title I the following items:
`Part C--Authority to Contract for Petroleum Product Not Owned by the
United States
`Sec. 171. Contracting for petroleum product and facilities.
`Sec. 172. Implementation.
`Sec. 173. Contracts for which no implementing legislation is needed.
`Sec. 174. Contracts for which implementing legislation is needed.';
 (2) by redesignating part C in the items for title I as part D; and
 (3) by redesignating the item for section 171 as the item for section 181.
SEC. 7. REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCT RESERVE.
 Section 160 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6240)
 is amended by adding at the end the following after the subsection added
 by section 5(a) of this Act:
 `(g)(1) The Secretary shall conduct a test program of storage of refined
 petroleum products within the Reserve. The test program shall commence during
 fiscal year 1992 and continue through fiscal year 1994. The test program
 shall demonstrate mechanisms for storage of refined petroleum products
 within the Reserve which may be drawn down in accordance with this part.
 `(2) The mechanisms demonstrated under paragraph (1)--
 `(A) shall include the acquisition by lease or purchase, or both, of
 refined petroleum products for storage in the Reserve and shall include
 the acquisition by lease of storage facilities; and
 `(B) may include other mechanisms including, but not limited to, industrial
 petroleum reserves pursuant to section 156 and State set-aside programs,
 except that such mechanisms must provide equivalent control over the drawdown
 and distribution of such refined petroleum products as is provided under
 this part.
 `(3) Any refined petroleum products stored in the Reserve under this
 subsection shall be stored in locations to be determined by the Secretary,
 taking into account the proximity of existing distribution systems, the
 proximity of the area or areas of the United States most dependent on
 imported petroleum products or likely to experience shortages of refined
 petroleum products, and the capability for expeditious distribution to such
 area or areas.
 `(4) In the conduct of the test program under paragraph (1), the Secretary
 shall increase the quantity of refined petroleum products acquired for
 storage in the Reserve by an amount equal to 10 percent of the fill of the
 Reserve during each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994, except that
 the Secretary may not expend more than 10 percent of the funds appropriated
 for the acquisition, transportation and injection of petroleum products
 into the Reserve during each of the fiscal years covered by the test program.
 `(5) In the conduct of the test program under paragraph (1), the Secretary may
 not construct or purchase facilities for the storage of refined petroleum
 products.
 `(6) Refined petroleum products stored in the Reserve under the test program
 may be withdrawn from the Reserve before the conclusion of the test program--
 `(A) as may be necessary to turn such products over because of changes in
 the physical characteristics of the product; or
 `(B) on the basis of a finding made under section 161.
 `(7) No later than January 31, 1994, the Secretary shall transmit to
 the Congress a report on the test program. The report shall evaluate the
 mechanisms demonstrated under the test program, other potential mechanisms,
 and the purchase of facilities. The report shall include an assessment of
 the costs and benefits of the various mechanisms. The report shall also make
 recommendations with regard to future storage of refined petroleum products
 and contain drafts of any legislative provisions which the Secretary wishes
 to recommend.'.
SEC. 8. TEST DRAWDOWN.
 Paragraph (1) of section 161(g) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
 (42 U.S.C. 6241(g)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(1) The Secretary shall conduct a continuing evaluation of the Distribution
 Plan. In the conduct of such evaluation, the Secretary is authorized to
 carry out test drawdown and distribution of crude oil from the Reserve. If
 any such test drawdown includes the sale or exchange of crude oil, then the
 aggregate quantity of crude oil withdrawn from the Reserve may not exceed
 5,000,000 barrels during any such test drawdown or distribution.'.
SEC. 9. EXEMPTION FROM INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT.
 Section 159 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6239),
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection after the
 subsection added by section 4(a) of this Act:
 `(k) A storage or related facility of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
 owned by or leased to the United States is not subject to the Interstate
 Commerce Act.'.
SEC. 10. AUTHORITY TO ALLOW EXCHANGE OF SPR OIL.
 Section 161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection after the
 subsection added by section 3(b) of this Act:
 `(i) Notwithstanding any other law, the President may permit any petroleum
 products withdrawn from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in accordance with
 this section to be sold and delivered for refining or exchange outside of
 the United States, in connection with an arrangement for the delivery of
 refined petroleum products to the United States.'.
SEC. 11. DRAWDOWN PLAN AMENDMENTS DURING IMPLEMENTATION.
 Section 159 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6239) is
 amended by inserting at the end of the section the following new subsection
 after the subsection added by section 9 of this Act:
 `(l) Notwithstanding subsection (d), during any period in which the
 Distribution Plan is being implemented, the Secretary may amend the plan
 and promulgate rules, regulations, or orders to implement such amendments in
 accordance with section 523 of this Act, without regard to the requirements
 of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, and section 501 of the
 Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7191). Such amendments
 shall be transmitted to the Congress together with a statement explaining
 the need for such amendments.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.