 
--S.2124--
S.2124
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the National Space Council, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `National Space Council Authorization
 Act of 1990'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 2. There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the activities
 of the National Space Council established by section 501 of the National
 Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, fiscal year 1989
 (42 U.S.C. 2471), $1,200,000 for fiscal year 1990. The National Space
 Council shall reimburse other agencies for not less than one-half of the
 personnel compensation costs of individuals detailed to it.
staffing
 SEC. 3. (a) Not more than six individuals may be employed by the National
 Space Council without regard to any provision of law regulating the employment
 or compensation of persons in the Government service, at rates not to exceed
 the rate of pay for level VI of the Senior Executive Schedule as provided
 pursuant to section 5382 of title 5, United States Code.
 (b) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end thereof the following:
 `Executive Secretary, National Space Council.'.
EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS
 SEC. 4. The National Space Council may, for purposes of carrying out its
 functions, employ experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109
 of title 5, United States Code, and may compensate individuals so employed
 for each day they are involved in a business of the National Space Council
 (including traveltime) at rates not in excess of the daily equivalent of
 the maximum rate of pay for grade GS-18 as provided pursuant to section
 5332 of title 5, United States Code.
review of launch industry
 SEC. 5. (a) The National Space Council is requested to initiate a review
 of United States launch policy, including the Nation's expendable launch
 vehicle and satellite industries, their current and projected markets, the
 existing and projected level of foreign competition in these industries,
 the extent and level of support from foreign governments in these markets
 and industries, the consequences of the entry of nonmarket providers of
 launch services and satellites into the world market, restrictions on the
 use of foreign launch services and the export of United States satellites,
 and the importance of the United States launch vehicle and satellite industry
 to the national and economic security.
 (b) The findings of this review and any policy recommendations are to be
 submitted to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
 Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
 Representatives by August 1, 1990.
EFFECTIVE DATE
 SEC. 6. The provisions of this Act are effective as of October 1, 1989.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.