 
--S.2203--
S.2203
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriation of funds to the Zuni Indian Tribe for reservation
land conservation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Zuni Land Conservation Act of 1990'.
zuni resource development plan
 SEC. 2. (a) Before the first day of the third fiscal year beginning after
 the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior and the
 Zuni Indian Tribe shall jointly formulate a Zuni resource development plan
 for the Zuni Indian Reservation, which shall include (but not be limited to)--
 (1) a methodology for sustained development of renewable resources;
 (2) a program of watershed rehabilitation;
 (3) a computerized  system  of  resource  management  and monitoring;
 (4) programs for funding and training of Zuni Indians to fill professional
 positions that implement the overall plan;
 (5) proposals for cooperative programs with the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 and other private or public agencies to provide technical assistance in
 carrying out the plan; and
 (6) identification and acquisition of lands necessary to sustain Zuni
 resource development.
 (b) The Resource Development Plan shall be implemented in a manner that
 protects resources owned and controlled by the Zuni Tribe and promotes
 sustained yield development.
TRUST FUND
 SEC. 3. (a) There is hereby established within the Treasury of the United
 States the Zuni Indian Resource Development Trust Fund (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Trust Fund'). The Trust Fund shall consist of amounts
 appropriated to the Trust Fund and all interest and investment income that
 accrues on such amounts.
 (b)(1) The Secretary of the Interior shall be the trustee of the Trust Fund
 and shall invest the funds in the Trust Fund with a financial institution.
 (2) The Secretary of the Interior shall not deduct any amount from the
 Trust Fund for administrative expenses or charge the Zuni Indian Tribe for
 expenses incurred by the Secretary in acting as trustee.
 (c)(1) The funds appropriated to the Trust Fund under the authority of
 section 4 shall constitute the corpus of the Trust Fund and may be expended,
 subject to paragraph (2), only for the following purposes:
 (A) payment of any loans, debts, or future expenses incurred by the Zuni
 Indian Tribe to any person for the purchase of land or obtaining or defending
 rights of access to the area described in Public Law 98-408;
 (B) payment of up to $600,000 per year for two years for the formulation
 of the Zuni resource development plan described in section 2;
 (C) payment of all costs, attorneys' fees, and expenses incurred prior to
 September 30, 1990, by the Zuni Indian Tribe in the prosecution of docket
 numbers 327-81L and 224-84L of the United States Claims Court; and
 (D) payment of all invoices submitted by any person to the Zuni Indian
 Tribe for which proper vouchers have been received prior to September 30,
 1990, and subsequently approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
 (2) The total amount of the corpus of the Trust Fund that may be expended
 under paragraph (1) shall not exceed $8,000,000.
 (3) The interest and investment income that accrues on the corpus of the
 Trust Fund may be expended by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to
 the Zuni resource development plan described in section 2.
 (4) No funds appropriated under the authority of this Act may be used to
 make per capita payments to members of the Zuni Indian Tribe.
 (5) All sums paid pursuant to this Act shall be offset against any judgment
 entered in favor of the Zuni Indian Tribe in docket numbers 327-81L and
 224-84L, but not against any judgment entered in docket number 161-79L,
 of the United States Claims Court.
 (6) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect in any way the trust
 status of Zuni Indian Reservation land or resources.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 4. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Zuni Indian Resource
 Development Trust Fund $25,000,000. Such funds shall remain available
 without fiscal year limitation.
ADDITIONAL LANDS
 SEC. 5. The first section of the Act entitled `An Act to convey certain lands
 to the Zuni Indian Tribe for religious purposes', approved August 28, 1984
 (98 Stat. 1533), is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `Also, all of sections 13 and 23, township 14 north, range 26 east, Gila
 and Salt River Meridian, such lands to be acquired and held in accordance
 with sections 2 and 3 of this Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.