 
--S.2205--
S.2205
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To designate certain lands in the State of Maine as wilderness.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Maine Wilderness Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.
 In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136),
 certain lands in the White Mountain National Forest, in the State of Maine--
 (1) which comprise approximately twelve thousand acres, as generally depicted
 on a map entitled `Caribou-Speckled Mountain Wilderness--Proposed', dated
 January 1987; and
 (2) which shall be known as the Caribou-Speckled Mountain Wilderness,
are hereby designated wilderness, and, therefore, as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System.
SEC. 3. MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.
 As soon as practicable after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall file a map and a legal description of the wilderness area
 designated by this Act with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and
 the Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of Representatives
 and with the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the United
 States Senate. The map and description shall have the same force and effect as
 if included in this Act, except that correction of clerical and typographical
 errors in such map and description may be made by the Secretary. The map
 and description shall be on file and available for public inspection in
 the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.
 Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness area designated by this Act
 shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the
 provisions of the Wilderness Act governing areas designated by that Act as
 wilderness, except that any reference in such provisions to the effective
 date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date
 of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. WILDERNESS REVIEW CONCERNS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Department of Agriculture has completed the second roadless area
 review and evaluation program (RARE II); and
 (2) the Congress has made its own review and examination of National
 Forest System roadless areas in the Maine section of the White Mountain
 National Forest and of the environmental impacts associated with alternative
 allocations of such areas.
 (b) DETERMINATION- On the basis of such review, the Congress hereby determines
 and directs that--
 (1) without passing on the question of the legal and factual sufficiency of
 the RARE II final environmental statement (dated January 1979) with respect
 to National Forest System lands in the State of Maine; such statement shall
 not be subject to judicial review with respect to National Forest System
 lands in the State of Maine;
 (2) with respect to the National Forest System lands in the State of
 Maine which were reviewed by the Department of Agriculture in the second
 roadless area review and evaluation (RARE II) and those lands referred to
 in subsection (d), that review and evaluation or reference shall be deemed
 for the purposes of the initial land management plans required for such
 lands by the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974,
 as amended by the National Forest Management Act of 1976, to be an adequate
 consideration of the suitability of such lands for inclusion in the National
 Wilderness Preservation System and the Department of Agriculture shall not
 be required to review the wilderness option prior to the revisions of the
 plans, but shall review the wilderness option when the plans are revised,
 which revisions will ordinarily occur on a ten-year cycle, or at least every
 fifteen years, unless, prior to such time, the Secretary of Agriculture
 finds that conditions in a unit have significantly changed;
 (3) areas in the State of Maine reviewed in such final environmental
 statement or referenced in subsection (d) and not designated wilderness
 upon enactment of this Act shall be managed for multiple use in accordance
 with land management plans pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland
 Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, as amended by the National Forest
 Management Act of 1976: Provided, That such areas need not be managed for
 the purpose of protecting their suitability for wilderness designation
 prior to or during revision of the initial land management plans;
 (4) in the event that revised land management plans in the State of
 Maine are implemented pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland
 Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, as amended by the National Forest
 Management Act of 1976, and other applicable law, areas not recommended for
 wilderness designation need not be managed for the purpose of protecting
 their suitability for wilderness designation prior to or during revision of
 such plans, and areas recommended for wilderness designation shall be managed
 for the purpose of protecting their suitability for wilderness designation
 as may be required by the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
 Act of 1974, as amended by the National Forest Management Act of 1976,
 and other applicable law; and
 (5) unless expressly authorized by Congress, the Department of Agriculture
 shall not conduct any further statewide roadless area review and evaluation
 of National Forest System lands in the State of Maine for the purpose of
 determining their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness
 Preservation System.
 (c) REVISION- As used in this section, and as provided in section 6 of the
 Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, as amended
 by the National Forest Management Act of 1976, the term `revision' shall
 not include an `amendment' to a plan.
 (d) APPLICATION OF SECTION- The provisions of this section shall also apply
 to National Forest System roadless lands in the State of Maine which are
 less than 5,000 acres in size.
SEC. 6. PROHIBITION ON BUFFER ZONES.
 Congress does not intend that the designation of a wilderness area in the
 State of Maine lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones
 around the wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses
 can be seen or heard from within the wilderness area shall not, of itself,
 preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
SEC. 7. CONTROL OF FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.
 As provided in section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act, such measures may be
 taken within wilderness areas designated by this Act as may be necessary
 in the control of fire, insects, and diseases, subject to applicable laws
 and such additional reasonable conditions as the Secretary deems desirable.
SEC. 8. STATE FISH AND WILDLIFE AUTHORITY.
 As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act, nothing in this Act
 shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the
 State of Maine with respect to wildlife and fish in the national forests
 in Maine.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.