 
--S.2437--
S.2437
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the acquisition of certain lands in the States of Louisiana
and Mississippi for inclusion in the Vicksburg National Military Park, to
improve the management of certain public lands in the State of Minnesota,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--VICKSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK
SEC. 101. ADDITION OF LANDS TO VICKSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK.
 (a) GRANT'S CANAL, LOUISIANA- The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter
 in this title referred to as the `Secretary') is authorized to acquire
 by donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds,
 approximately two and five-tenths acres of land in Madison Parish, Louisiana,
 known generally as the Grant's Canal property.
 (b) WARREN COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI- (1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire
 by donation approximately two and eighty-two one-hundredths acres of land
 adjacent to the entrance of Vicksburg National Military Park owned by Warren
 County, Mississippi.
 (2) The Secretary may contribute, in cash or services, to the relocation
 and construction of a maintenance facility to replace the facility located
 on the land to be donated, all in accordance with an agreement between the
 Secretary and the Board of Supervisors.
 (3) The Secretary is authorized to restore and landscape the property
 acquired pursuant to this subsection.
 (c) BOUNDARY REVISION- Upon acquisition of the properties referred to
 in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall, after the publication of
 notice in the Federal Register, revise the boundary of Vicksburg National
 Military Park (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `park') to
 reflect the inclusion of such properties within the park.
SEC. 102. EXCLUSION OF LANDS FROM PARK.
 (a) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN LANDS- The park boundary is hereby revised to
 exclude those lands depicted as `Proposed Deletions' on the map entitled
 `Vicksburg National Military Park' numbered 306-80,007 and dated May 1990,
 which map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the
 Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Exclusive
 jurisdiction over the lands excluded from the park is hereby retroceded to
 the State of Mississippi.
 (b) TRANSFER TO ADJACENT OWNERS- (1) For a period ending four years after the
 date of enactment of this title and subject to the provisions of paragraph
 (2), the Secretary is authorized to convey title to all or part of the lands
 referred to in subsection (a) to an owner of property adjacent to such lands,
 upon the application of such owner.
 (2) No property shall be conveyed unless the application referred to in
 paragraph (1) is accompanied by a payment in an amount equal to--
 (A) the fair market value of the land to be conveyed; and
 (B) the administrative costs of such transfer incurred by the Secretary,
 including the costs of surveys, appraisals, and filing and recording fees.
 (c) EXCESS PROPERTY- Any lands not conveyed pursuant to subsection (b)
 shall be reported to the Administrator of General Services as excess to the
 needs of the Department of the Interior and shall be subject to transfer
 or disposition in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative
 Services Act of 1949, as amended.
SEC. 103. PARK INTERPRETATION.
 In administering Vicksburg National Military Park, the Secretary shall
 interpret the campaign and seige of Vicksburg from April 1862 to July 4,
 1863, and the history of Vicksburg under Union occupation during the Civil
 War and Reconstruction.
SEC. 104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this title.
TITLE II--MINNESOTA PUBLIC LANDS
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Minnesota Public Lands Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 202. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress hereby finds and declares that--
 (1) within the State of Minnesota there are a number of small scattered
 islands and upland tracts that are in Federal ownership and under the
 jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management;
 (2) the public interest would be best served if these Federal islands and
 upland tracts continue to be managed for public recreation; preservation
 of open space; and for the protection of their fish, wildlife, and plants
 and their scientific, historic, cultural, geologic, and other resources
 and values;
 (3) many such islands and upland tracts are not suitable for inclusion in
 the National Park System, National Forest System, National Wildlife Refuge
 System, or other Federal conservation system or for efficient management
 by the Bureau of Land Management;
 (4) the State of Minnesota is prepared and willing to undertake to manage
 such islands and upland tracts for such purposes and subject to appropriate
 conditions, but existing mechanisms for enabling the State to undertake
 such management are cumbersome and inefficient as applied to such small,
 scattered islands and tracts;
 (5) elsewhere in Minnesota there are unpatented lands which for many years
 have been in the possession of parties other than the United States but the
 title to which is clouded because of claims arising under public land laws
 or otherwise involving possible Federal residual interests;
 (6) existing authorities for Federal resolution of such conflicts, and for
 removal of such clouds on title, are often not well suited for efficient,
 expeditious action that appropriately protects the interests of all parties,
 including the United States; and
 (7) legislation to facilitate appropriate management by the State of
 Minnesota of such islands and upland tracts and to facilitate resolution
 of such claims and removal of such clouds would be in the public interest.
 (b) PURPOSES- This title is intended to provide for better management of
 public lands located in the State of Minnesota by--
 (1) transferring certain specified unclaimed islands and uplands and certain
 other public lands to such State for purposes of public recreation, protection
 of fish, wildlife, and plants, and the protection of resources and values; and
 (2) authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to resolve claims to certain
 other public lands in Minnesota and to transfer such lands to claimants
 thereof on terms that recognize the equities of such claimants in such lands.
SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this title--
 (a) the term `listed uplands and islands' means those public lands located
 in the State of Minnesota which are specified in the list containing
 the legal description of such lands and entitled `Minnesota Uplands and
 Islands Appropriate for State Management' dated July 16, 1990, on file in
 the Office of the Secretary of the Interior, except for any lands to which
 Indian title has not been extinguished;
 (b) the term `public lands' means federally owned lands or interests therein
 managed by the Bureau of Land Management;
 (c) the term `claim' means a good faith assertion by a party other than
 the United States that--
 (1) such party has title to a parcel or tract of land, or
 (2) a parcel or tract of land is held in trust by the United States for
 the benefit of an Indian tribe or an individual member of an Indian tribe;
 (d) the term `Recreation and Public Purposes Act' means the Act of June 14,
 1926, as amended (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.);
 (e) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (f) the term `State' means the State of Minnesota.
SEC. 204. GRANT TO STATE.
 (a) UNCLAIMED AREAS- Effective one year after the date of enactment of
 this Act and subject to its terms and conditions, the right, title and
 interest of the United States in and to all listed uplands and islands,
 surveyed and unsurveyed, in Lake Superior, inland lakes and rivers, and
 other bodies of water within the State which as of one hundred and eighty
 days after the date of enactment of this Act were not subject to any claim
 identified on the records of, or filed with the Bureau of Land Management,
 are hereby granted to the State.
 (b) CLAIMED AREAS- Any listed uplands and islands which were subject to
 a claim identified on the records of, or filed with the Bureau of Land
 Management as of one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment
 of this Act, may be sold by the Secretary to the claimant or claimants
 thereof under section 205 of this Act. No later than one year after the
 date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall notify such claimant or
 claimants concerning the Secretary's authority for such sales. The right,
 title, and interest of the United States in and to any such listed uplands and
 islands not purchased by such claimant or claimants within ten years after
 the date of enactment of this Act shall be transferred by the Secretary
 to the State under and subject to this Act at the end of such ten years,
 and any claim to any such listed uplands and islands by any party other
 than the State shall not thereafter be enforceable in any court of the
 United States, subject to the following exceptions:
 (1) The ten-year period shall be tolled during pendency of any administrative
 appellate review of a decision by the Bureau of Land Management or of any
 judicial review of a final decision by the Secretary; and
 (2) The Secretary may transfer lands to the State earlier than ten years
 after the date of enactment if a claim for said lands has been rejected or
 disallowed for any reason, or forfeited by the claimant.
 (c) PRIOR TRANSFERS-
 (1) Title to the surface estate in all public land which on the date of
 enactment of this Act was subject to leases issued under the authority
 of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act to the State, its departments,
 agencies, and bureaus, shall be deemed to have been granted to and vested
 in the State under this title on such date and shall thereafter be exempt
 from the requirements of the regulations of the Department of the Interior
 governing leases under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, but shall
 be subject to the provisions of this title.
 (2) Upon reversion and acceptance of public land in Minnesota which prior to
 the date of enactment of this Act was leased or patented under the Recreation
 and Public Purposes Act to entities other than the State, its departments,
 agencies and bureaus, and upon request of the State, the surface estate in
 such lands shall be transferred by the Secretary to the State pursuant to
 and subject to the provisions of this title.
 (3) If, in order to bring lands under the provisions of this title, the
 State notifies the Secretary that the State desires to relinquish to the
 United States the right, title, and interest of the State in and to any lands
 which prior to the date of enactment of this Act were patented to the State
 (or to any department, agency, or bureau of the State) under the authority
 of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, the Secretary shall accept such
 relinquishment and shall transfer such relinquished lands to the State
 under and subject to the provisions of this title. Such transfer shall be
 effective at the same time that the State's relinquishment is effective.
SEC. 205. RESOLUTION OF CLAIMS.
 (a) SALES- In accordance with the provisions of this section, the Secretary
 is authorized to sell and issue a patent to a tract of public land located in
 Minnesota to an applicant for such sale where the Secretary determines that--
 (1) such tract does not exceed one thousand five hundred acres and, because
 of its location or other characteristics, is difficult and uneconomic to
 manage as part of the public lands and is not suitable for management by
 another Federal department or agency, and
 (2) such sale would not be inconsistent with land use plans, if any,
 developed in accordance with section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and
 Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).
 (b) PRICE ADJUSTMENTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, following
 adjudication of any claims the Secretary may, at the Secretary's discretion,
 convey land pursuant to this section at fair market value, less equities
 presented by an applicant for such conveyance and less the value of any
 improvements that the applicant or the applicant's predecessors in interest
 have placed on the land. Such equities may include (but are not limited to)--
 (1) the amount paid for the land by the applicant;
 (2) longevity of applicant's claim;
 (3) taxes paid on the land; and
 (4) other equities as the Secretary may determine relevant.
 (c) DESCRIPTIONS- Any tract of public land conveyed pursuant to this section
 shall be described in accordance with the Public Land Survey System as
 reflected on the approved Federal plat of survey. Where a tract does not
 conform to an existing survey plat, the Secretary may either--
 (1) convey title to a trustee, qualified under the laws of the State to act
 as a trustee and acceptable to the Secretary, acting on behalf of more than
 one applicant to whom such trustee shall be required to transfer such tract,
 in order to conform the legal description to such plat; or
 (2) require an applicant to reimburse the United States for the cost of
 preparing a plat of survey. No cost incurred by a trustee in implementing
 this subsection shall be borne by the United States.
 (d) APPLICABILITY AND PROCEDURE-
 (1) This section shall apply only to tracts specified in subsection 204(b)
 of this Act, and only if the Secretary has determined such claims to be
 sufficiently meritorious as to be appropriate for exercise of the Secretary's
 discretionary authority under this section.
 (2) No sale under this section shall take place before thirty days after
 the Secretary has published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
 county where a tract proposed for sale is located a notice of the Secretary's
 determination that such tract is eligible for sale under this section and
 that the Secretary intends to offer such tract for sale. Such notice shall
 indicate the size and general location of the tract and the name or names
 of the claimant or claimants to whom the Secretary intends to sell such tract.
SEC. 206. RESERVATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
 (a) MINERAL RESERVATION- All lands granted by, and any patent or document of
 conveyance or other transfer issued pursuant to, this title shall be subject
 to the reservation to the United States of all minerals in the lands granted,
 conveyed, or otherwise transferred, together with the right to prospect for,
 mine and remove the minerals under applicable law and such regulations
 as the Secretary may prescribe, except that in the case of sales under
 section 205 of this title the Secretary may convey the minerals together
 with the surface in accordance with section 209 of the Federal Land Policy
 and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1719).
 (b) OTHER CONDITIONS-
 (1) The lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this title
 shall not be conveyed or otherwise transferred by the State to any person or
 entity other than the United States or a political subdivision of the State.
 (2) The lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this
 title shall be used only for purposes of--
 (A) public recreation;
 (B) protection of fish and wildlife (including habitat) and plants; or
 (C) the protection of the scenic, scientific, historic, cultural, geologic,
 and other resources and values of such lands.
 (3)(A) If the State attempts to convey or otherwise transfer title to any
 part of the lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this
 title to any person or entity other than the United States or a political
 subdivision of the State, all right, title, and interest in and to all such
 lands so granted or otherwise transferred to the State, together with all
 improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States.
 (B) If any political subdivision of the State attempts to convey or otherwise
 transfer title to any part of any lands granted or otherwise transferred to
 the State under this title (and conveyed or otherwise transferred to such
 subdivision by the State) to any person or entity other than the State,
 all right, title, and interest in and to all such lands so conveyed or
 otherwise transferred to such subdivision, together with all improvements
 thereon, shall revert to the United States.
 (4)(A) If any part of the lands granted or otherwise transferred to the
 State under this title (and not further conveyed or otherwise transferred
 by the State to a political subdivision thereof) are used for any purpose
 incompatible with the purposes specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection,
 all right, title, and interest in and to all such lands in the ownership
 of the State, together with all improvements thereon, shall revert to the
 United States.
 (B) If any of the lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State
 under this title are conveyed or otherwise transferred by the State to a
 political subdivision of the State, use of part of any such lands for any
 purpose incompatible with the purposes specified in paragraph (2) of this
 subsection shall cause all right, title, and interest in and to all such
 lands so conveyed or otherwise transferred to such political subdivision,
 together with all improvements thereon, to revert to the United States.
 (5)(A) If any land, or portion thereof, granted or otherwise conveyed to
 the State or political subdivision of the State shall become contaminated
 with hazardous substances (as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental
 Response, Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601)), or if such land,
 or portion thereof, has been used for purposes that the Secretary finds may
 result in the disposal, placement or release of any hazardous substance,
 such land shall not, under any circumstances, revert to the United States.
 (B) In the event lands granted or conveyed to the State or political
 subdivision of the State shall be used for purposes that the Secretary finds:
 (1) inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, and (2) which may result in
 the disposal, placement or release of any hazardous substance, the State or
 political subdivision of the State shall be liable to pay to the Secretary,
 on behalf of the United States, the fair market value of the land, including
 the value of any improvements thereon, as of the date of conversion of the
 land to the nonconforming purpose. All amounts received by the Secretary
 pursuant to this subparagraph shall be retained by the Secretary and used,
 subject to appropriations, for the management of public lands and shall
 remain available until expended.
SEC. 207. NOTICE AND ENFORCEMENT.
 (a) PUBLIC NOTICE-
 (1) As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary, in consultation with appropriate officials of the State, shall
 take steps to notify residents of the State as to the nature and location
 of the listed uplands and islands to be granted or otherwise transferred
 to the State under this title.
 (2)(A) The State, or a political subdivision thereof, shall provide notice
 in writing to the Secretary with regard to any conveyance or other transfer
 by the State to a political subdivision thereof of any of the lands granted
 or otherwise transferred to the State under this title. In the event that
 such notice is not received within one year after any such conveyance
 or transfer, such conveyance or transfer by the State shall be void ab
 initio and all right, title, and interest in and to the land covered by
 such attempted conveyance or transfer shall revert to the United States.
 (B) No later than five years after the date of enactment of this Act,
 and every five years thereafter, the State shall submit to the Secretary
 a report as to the present ownership, management, and use of the lands
 granted or otherwise transferred to the State pursuant to this title.
 (3) The Secretary shall maintain in the appropriate office of the Bureau
 of Land Management a current listing of the lands granted or otherwise
 transferred to the State under this title, including a record of which,
 if any, of such lands have been conveyed or otherwise transferred by the
 State to a political subdivision thereof.
 (b) ENFORCEMENT-
 (1) Any person may submit to the Secretary a complaint alleging that the
 State or a political subdivision thereof has failed to comply with the
 requirements of this title or that actions have occurred which have had the
 effect of causing the reversion to the United States of some or all of the
 lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this title.
 (2) In the event that the Secretary determines that a complaint received
 under this subsection is supported by evidence sufficient to warrant further
 investigation, the Secretary shall investigate the matter.
 (3) If, as a result of an investigation under paragraph (2) or for any
 other reason, the Secretary determines that title to some or all of the
 lands granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this title has
 reverted to the United States pursuant to this title, the Secretary shall
 take all necessary steps to enforce such reversion and to stop use of any
 part of such lands for any purpose incompatible with the purposes specified
 in section 206(b)(2) of this title.
 (4) Any lands which may revert to the United States under this title shall
 be retained and managed by the Secretary for the purposes specified in
 section 206(b)(2) of this title.
SEC. 208. HUNTING AND FISHING.
 Nothing in this title shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or
 responsibilities of the State of Minnesota with respect to fish and wildlife
 (including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping) in any lands
 granted or otherwise transferred to the State under this title, or as
 increasing or diminishing any rights with respect to hunting, gathering,
 or fishing on such lands arising under any Treaty or other agreement between
 the United States and any Indian Tribe or individual.
SEC. 209. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
 (a) Subsection 3(d) of the Michigan Public Lands Improvement Act of 1988
 (Public Law 100-537) is hereby amended by striking the period at the end
 of paragraph (1) of such subsection and by inserting in lieu thereof,
 `, and only if the Secretary has determined such claims to be sufficiently
 meritorious as to be appropriate for exercise of the Secretary's discretionary
 authority under this section.'.
 (b) Subsection 4(b) of the Michigan Public Lands Improvement Act of 1988
 (Public Law 100-537) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `the United States or' after `any person or entity other
 than' in paragraph (1); and
 (2) by inserting `the United States or' after `any person or entity other
 than' in subparagraph (3)(A).
TITLE III--FLORENCE BROWN RELIEF ACT
SEC. 301. LAND TRANSFER.
 The Secretary of Agriculture shall transfer, without consideration, to
 Florence F. Brown of Goleta, California, all right, title, and interest of the
 United States in and to the parcel of land located in the Los Padres National
 Forest which is comprised of approximately 40 acres and more particularly
 described as T. 5 N., R. 30 W., S.B.M., section 18, NE 1/4  SW 1/4 .
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.