 
--S.248--
S.248
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To amend title 18 of the United States Code to provide increased penalties
for certain
major frauds against the United States.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Major Fraud Act Amendments of 1989'.
SEC. 2. REWARD FOR WHISTLEBLOWERS.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO TITLE 18- Section 1031 of title 18, United States Code,
 is amended by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1) In special circumstances and in his or her sole discretion, the
 Attorney General is authorized to make payments from funds appropriated
 to the Department of Justice to persons who furnish information relating
 to a possible prosecution under this section. The amount of such payment
 shall not exceed $250,000. Upon application by the Attorney General, the
 court may order that the Department shall be reimbursed for a payment from
 a criminal fine imposed under this section.
 `(2) An individual is not eligible for such a payment if--
 `(A) that individual is an officer or employee of a government agency who
 furnishes information or renders service in the performance of official
 duties;
 `(B) that individual failed to furnish the information to the individual's
 employer prior to furnishing it to law enforcement authorities, unless the
 court determines the individual has justifiable reasons for that failure;
 `(C) the furnished information is based upon public disclosure
 of allegations or transactions in a criminal, civil, or administrative
 hearing, in a congressional, administrative, or GAO report, hearing, audit
 or investigation, or from the news media unless the person is the original
 source of the information. For the purposes of this subsection, `original
 source' means an individual who has direct and independent knowledge of the
 information on which the allegations are based and has voluntarily provided
 the information to the Government; or
 `(D) that individual participated in the violation of this section with
 respect to which such payment would be made.
 `(3) The failure of the Attorney General to authorize a payment shall not
 be subject to judicial review.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by this section shall apply to
 contracts entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 (a) REPEAL- Section 3 of the Major Fraud Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-700)
 and the amendment made by such section are repealed.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The repeal made by this section shall be deemed to be
 effective on the date of enactment of Public Law 100-700.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.