 
--S.2461--
S.2461
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend the program of
grants for reducing the waiting period for receiving treatment services for
drug abuse, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Drug Abuse Treatment Waiting Period Reduction
 Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 2. REVISION AND EXTENSION OF PROGRAM FOR REDUCING WAITING PERIOD FOR
DRUG ABUSE TREATMENT.
 (a) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT REGARDING WAITING PERIOD- Section 509E(a) of the
 Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-12(a)) is amended by striking
 `the waiting list' and all that follows and inserting the following:
 `the waiting period for receiving, with respect to drug abuse, treatment
 services from public and nonprofit private providers of such services.'.
 (b) PRIORITIES IN MAKING GRANTS; AUTHORITY FOR POSTTREATMENT SERVICES- Section
 509E of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-12) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (d);
 (2) by redesignating subsections (c), (e), and (f) as subsections (e),
 (f), and (g), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsections:
 `(c) Subject to the availability of qualified applicants, the Secretary shall,
 in making grant under subsection (a), give priority to applicants that will
 provide, directly or through arrangements with public or nonprofit private
 entities, treatment services for drug abuse to pregnant or postpartum women.
 `(d) A grantee under subsection (a) may expend not more than 50 percent of
 the grant to develop and provide, directly or through arrangements with
 public or nonprofit private entities, follow-up services to prevent the
 renewed abuse of drugs by individuals who have successfully completed,
 with respect to such abuse, a program of treatment provided by the grantee.'.
 (c) FUNDING-
 (1) INCREASE IN AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Paragraph (1) of section
 509E(g) of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated by subsection
 (b)(2) of this section, is amended to read as follows:
 `(1) In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated to carry out this
 section prior to fiscal year 1991, there are authorized to be appropriated
 an additional $40,000,000 to carry out this section.'.
 (2) INCREASE REGARDING LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF GRANTS- Paragraph
 (3) of section 509E(g) of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated
 by subsection (b)(2) of this section, is amended by striking `$100,000,000'
 and inserting `$140,000,000'.
 (3) AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN FUNDS- Notwithstanding section 307 of Public
 Law 101-164, amounts appropriated in such Public Law for the purpose of
 carrying out section 509E of the Public Health Service Act shall remain
 available for obligation for such purpose through December 31, 1990.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration shall prepare and submit to the Senate Committee on Labor and
 Human Resources, and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, a report
 concerning the waiting-period-reduction grant program under section 509E
 of the Public Health Service Act.  Such report shall include--
 (1) a list and description of the programs that have been awarded grants
 under such section;
 (2) with respect to the process by which funds awarded under such section
 are expended for treatment services for drug abuse, a description of the
 extent to which such process is different than the process by which funds
 received by the States under subpart B of title XIX of such Act are expended
 by entities to which the States have awarded such funds for the purpose
 of providing treatment services (including a description of the extent to
 which there are differences in the 2 processes in the manner in which the
 providers of such treatment services obligate and draw down funds);
 (3) an assessment of the validity of waiting lists as a measure of treatment
 need and, if the report concludes that waiting lists are not the most accurate
 measure of treatment need, a description of other, more accurate means of
 measuring the need for treatment services within a specified geographic area;
 (4) the views of State, local, and nongovernmental treatment experts with
 respect to the validity of waiting lists as a measure of treatment need
 and with respect to the efficacy of the waiting period reduction grant
 program; and
 (5) an assessment of the effectiveness of the treatment programs that
 receive funding under such section, including the usefulness of mechanisms,
 such as drug testing, that detect renewed substance abuse, and information
 with respect to the current use of such mechanisms.
 (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section
 shall take effect upon the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR CERTAIN DRUG ABUSE DEMONSTRATION
PROJECTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 517 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290cc-1) is amended by striking `There are' and all that follows
 through `section 515' and inserting the following: `For the purpose of
 carrying out this subpart, there are authorized to be appropriated'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 October 1, 1990, or upon the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever
 occurs later.
SEC. 4. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN PROGRAMS.
 (a) FORM OF ASSISTANCE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES TO SUPPLY SPECIALIZED
 MICE FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH- Public Law 101-190 (42 U.S.C. 289e note)
 is amended--
 (1) in section 1--
 (A) in the heading for the section, by striking `contract' and inserting
 `grant';
 (B) in subsection (a), by striking `entering into a contract with' and
 inserting `making a grant to'; and
 (C) in subsection (b), by striking `contract' and inserting `grant';
 (2) in section 2--
 (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant';
 (B) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `contract' and inserting `grant';
 (C) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
 striking `contractor' and inserting `grantee';
 (D) in subsection (b)(1), in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking `a
 contract' each place such term appears and inserting `an agreement';
 (E) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `contractor' and inserting `grantee';
 (F) in subsection (d)(1), in the heading, by striking `contractor' and
 inserting `grantee'; and
 (G) in subsection (d)(1)--
 (i) by striking `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant'; and
 (ii) by striking `the contract' and inserting `the grant';
 (3) in section 3(a)--
 (A) by striking `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant'; and
 (B) by striking `the contract' and inserting `the grant';
 (4) in section 4--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), in the first sentence--
 (i) by striking `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant'; and
 (ii) by striking `the contract' and inserting `the grant';
 (B) in subsection (a)(2)(A), in the second sentence, by striking `in the
 contract';
 (C) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant';
 (D) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `contract' and inserting `grant';
 (E) in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `enter into a contract' and inserting `make a grant'; and
 (F) in subsection (c)(1), by striking `contract' and inserting `grant';
 (5) in section 5--
 (A) in subsection (a), in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking `contractor'
 each place such term appears and inserting `grantee';
 (B) in subsection (b), in paragraphs (1) through (3), by striking `contractor'
 each place such term appears and inserting `grantee'; and
 (C) in subsection (c), by striking `contractor' and inserting `grantee'; and
 (6) in section 6(a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `contractor' and inserting `grantee'.
 (b) INTRASTATE ALLOCATIONS FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS UNDER CERTAIN BLOCK
 GRANTS TO THE STATES- Section 1916(c)(6)(A) of the Public Health Service
 Act is amended--
 (1) in clause (i)--
 (A) by striking `and' before `(III) in fiscal year 1989'; and
 (B) by inserting before the period the following: `, and (IV) in fiscal
 year 1990 under appropriations made in Public Law 101-164 for allotments
 under this subpart'; and
 (2) in clause (ii)--
 (A) by striking `and' before `(III) in fiscal year 1989'; and
 (B) by inserting before `bore to the funds' the following: `, and (IV)
 in fiscal year 1990 under appropriations made in Public Law 101-164 for
 allotments under this subpart'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATES FOR TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS-
 (1) CONSTRUCTION OF BIOMEDICAL FACILITIES- The amendments made by subsection
 (a) shall take effect as if included in Public Law 101-190.
 (2) INTRASTATE ALLOCATIONS FOR BLOCK GRANTS- The amendments made by subsection
 (b) shall take effect October 1, 1990, or upon the date of the enactment
 of this Act, whichever occurs later.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.