 
--S.2533--
S.2533
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to extend the civil penalty
assessment demonstration program, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. (a) Section 905(d)(4) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
 App. U.S.C. 1475(d)(4)) is amended by striking `28 month' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `31-month'.
 (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be effective as of April
 30, 1990.
 SEC. 2. Section 511 of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982
 (49 App. U.S.C. 2210) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subsection:
 `(g) USE OF AIRPORT GENERATED REVENUES IN HAWAII-
 `(1) GENERAL RULE- Notwithstanding the limitation on the use of revenues
 generated by airports contained in subsection (a)(12) of this section,
 the State of Hawaii may use for eligible transportation projects revenues
 generated on the sale at off-airport locations in the State of duty-free
 merchandise under a contract between the State and a duty-free sales
 enterprise.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) APPLICABILITY PERIOD- This subsection only applies to revenues generated
 after the date of enactment of this subsection and before December 31, 1994,
 on sales referred to in paragraph (1) and to amounts in the Airport Revenue
 Fund of the State of Hawaii which are attributable to revenues generated
 before the date of enactment of this subsection on such sales.
 `(B) COVERAGE OF AIRPORT CAPITAL AND OPERATING COSTS- The State of Hawaii may
 use under paragraph (1) revenues generated on sales referred to in paragraph
 (1) in a fiscal year of the State only if the amount of such revenues,
 when added to the amount of funds received in such year by the State for
 airport capital and operating costs from all other sources (including
 revenues generated by such airports from other sources, unrestricted cash
 on hand, and Federal funds made available under this Act for expenditure
 at such airports), exceeds 150 percent of the projected airport capital
 and operating costs for such year.
 `(C) ANNUAL CAP- The amount of revenues generated on sales referred to in
 paragraph (1) in a fiscal year of the State of Hawaii which the State may
 use under paragraph (1) may not exceed the amount of the excess determined
 under subparagraph (B) for such year.
 `(D) AGGREGATE CAP- The maximum amount of revenues which the State of Hawaii
 may use under paragraph (1) may not exceed $250,000,000 in the aggregate.
 `(E) REDUCTION DUE TO LANDING FEE INCREASE- If any fee levied or collected by
 an airport operated by the State of Hawaii for a rental charge, landing fee,
 or other service charge from an aircraft operator for the use of airport
 facilities is increased in the period beginning on the date of enactment
 of this subsection and ending December 31, 1994, by a percentage which is
 greater than the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index of All Urban
 Consumers for Honolulu, Hawaii, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
 of the Department of Labor in such period and if, as a result of such fee
 increase, there is an increase in the revenues derived from such fee, the
 $250,000,000 limit established by subparagraph (D) shall be reduced by the
 amount of the projected increase in such revenues in such period less any
 portion of such increase which is attributable to changes in such Index in
 such period.
 `(F) DETERMINATION OF COSTS AND PROJECTED INCREASES IN REVENUES- The State
 of Hawaii shall determine capital and operating costs and revenues under
 subparagraph (B) and the amount of projected increases in revenues from
 fee increases referred to in subparagraph (E). Determinations shall be
 submittted by the State to the Secretary for approval. A determination shall
 be treated as approved by the Secretary unless the Secretary disapproves
 such determination on or before the 30th day after the State submits such
 determination to the Secretary.
 `(G) ELIGIBILITY FOR DISCRETIONARY GRANTS- The State of Hawaii shall not be
 eligible for a grant under section 507(c) in any fiscal year in which the
 State uses under paragraph (1) revenues generated on sales referred to in
 paragraph (1). If the State receives a grant in a fiscal year in which the
 State as a result of this subparagraph is not eligible to receive a grant,
 the State shall repay all amounts received by the State under such grant
 to the Secretary for deposit in the discretionary fund established under
 section 507(c).
 `(3) PERIOD OF USE- Revenues generated on sales referred to in paragraph (1)
 in the period of applicability set forth in paragraph (2)(A) may be used
 under paragraph (1) in any fiscal year of the State, including a fiscal
 year of the State beginning after December 31, 1994.
 `(4) DEFINITIONS- In this subsection, the following apply:
 `(A) AIRPORT CAPITAL AND OPERATING COSTS- The term `airport capital and
 operating costs' means costs incurred by the State of Hawaii for operation of
 all airports operated by such State and costs for debt service incurred by
 such State in connection with capital projects for such airports, including
 interest and amortization of principal costs.
 `(B) DUTY-FREE SALES ENTERPRISE; DUTY-FREE MERCHANDISE- The terms `duty-free
 sales enterprise' and `duty-free merchandise' have the meaning such terms
 have under section 555(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1555(b)).
 `(C) ELIGIBLE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT- The term `eligible transportation
 project' means a project for construction or reconstruction of a highway on
 a Federal-aid system which will facilitate access to an airport and which
 is located within 10 miles by road of such airport.
 `(D) FEDERAL-AID SYSTEM; HIGHWAY- The terms `Federal aid system' and
 `highway' have the meaning such terms have under section 101 of title 23,
 United States Code.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.