 
--S.2597--
S.2597
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Act of June 20, 1910, to clarify in the State of New Mexico
authority to exchange lands granted by the United States in trust, and to
validate prior land exchanges.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO EXCHANGE LAND.
 Section 10 of the Act of June 20, 1910 (36 Stat. 563), is amended by
 inserting after the ninth paragraph thereof the following new paragraph:
 `The State commissioner of public lands may exchange any land granted or
 confirmed by this Act for any land of the United States or an agency thereof,
 a State agency or political subdivision, a beneficiary of lands granted or
 confirmed by this Act, an Indian tribe or pueblo, or a private entity when the
 commissioner finds, after consultation with the chief administrative officer
 of the affected beneficiary of lands granted or confirmed by this Act, that--
 `(1) based upon appraisals of the true value thereof, the value of the
 land to be received by the State is equal to or greater than the land to
 be conveyed by the State; and
 `(2) the proposed exchange is beneficial to the interests of the affected
 beneficiary.'.
SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) FINDING- The Congress finds that the retroactive application of the
 amendment made in section 1 to approve, validate, and ratify land exchanges
 made prior to the effective date of the amendment will not prejudice the
 interests of any person and will benefit the interests of the parties to
 such exchanges, the beneficiaries of land granted or confirmed under the
 Act of June 20, 1910, and the public.
 (b) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION- On the date that the Secretary of State of the
 State of New Mexico certifies that the people of the State of New Mexico have
 consented to this Act by amendment of article XXI of the constitution of the
 State of New Mexico, the amendment made in section 1 shall be effective as
 of June 20, 1910, so as to approve, validate, and ratify all exchanges made
 after that date of lands granted or confirmed to the State of New Mexico
 after that date.
SEC. 3. CONSENT TO CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS.
 The consent of Congress is given to amendments to article XXI of the
 Constitution of the State of New Mexico to consent to the amendment made in
 section 1, to become effective as of June 20, 1910, as provided in section 2.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.