 
--S.2516--
S.2516
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To augment and improve the quality of international data compiled by the
Bureau of Economic Analysis under the International Investment and Trade in
Services Survey Act by allowing that agency to share statistical establishment
list information compiled by the Bureau of the Census, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Foreign Direct Investment and International
 Financial Data Improvements Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The United States Government collects substantial amounts of information
 from foreign owned or controlled business enterprises or affiliates operating
 in the United States.
 (2) Additional analysis and presentation of this information is desirable
 to assist the public debate on the issue of foreign direct investments in
 the United States.
 (3) Information collected from foreign owned or controlled firms by the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis has serious analytical limitations because
 it is largely collected on an `enterprise' basis that does not permit an
 adequate analysis by industry groupings.
 (4) Statistical and analytic comparisons of the performance of foreign
 owned or controlled businesses operating within the United States with other
 business enterprises operating within the same industry can be accomplished
 under sections 2(b) and 5(c) of the International Investment and Trade in
 Services Survey Act, and under Executive Order Numbered 11961, without the
 need to collect additional information, by sharing with other authorized
 Government agencies the employer identification numbers maintained by the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis.
 (5) Public disclosures of confidential business information collected by
 the United States Government relating to international direct investment
 flows could cause serious damage to the accuracy of the statistical data base.
 (6) The General Accounting Office may have limited access to Government
 data on foreign direct investment.
SEC. 3. REPORT BY SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.
 (a) ANNUAL REPORT ON FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES-
 Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
 not later than the end of each 1-year period occurring thereafter, the
 Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
 the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
 the House of Representatives, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
 Transportation of the Senate, and to the Joint Economic Committee of the
 Congress a report on the role and significance of foreign direct investment
 in the United States. Such report shall address the history, scope, trends,
 market concentrations, and effects on the United States economy of such
 investment. In addition, the Secretary of Commerce shall, if requested by
 any such committee, appear before that committee to provide testimony with
 respect to any report under this subsection.
 (b) SOURCES OF DATA- In preparing each report under subsection (a),
 the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary's designees, shall consider
 information collected by--
 (1) the Bureau of Economic Analysis under the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3101 and following);
 (2) the Bureau of the Census on industry, manufacturing, research and
 development, and trade, under title 13, United States Code;
 (3) the Bureau of Labor Statistics pertaining to information collected
 under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act,
 but only to the extent that such information is in a form that cannot be
 associated with, or otherwise identify, directly or indirectly, a person,
 including any enterprise or establishment;
 (4) the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary's designee pursuant to
 section 2 of Executive Order 11858 of May 7, 1975;
 (5) the United States Department of Agriculture under the Agricultural
 Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3501 and following);
 (6) the Department of the Treasury under section 6039C of the Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6039C), but only to the extent that such information
 is in a form that cannot be associated with, or otherwise identify, directly
 or indirectly, a person, including any enterprise or establishment;
 (7) the Department of Energy under section 657(8) of the Department of
 Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7267(8)), but only to the extent that
 such information is in a form that cannot be associated with, or otherwise
 identify, directly or indirectly, a person, including any enterprise or
 establishment;
 (8) other Federal agencies not referred to in paragraphs (1) through (7),
 but only to the extent that such information is in a form that cannot be
 associated with, or otherwise identify, directly or indirectly, a person,
 including any enterprise or establishment;
 (9) foreign governments and agencies thereof; and
 (10) private sector sources.
 (c) ANALYSES- (1) The analysis in each report prepared under subsection
 (a) shall, to the extent of available data, compare business enterprises
 controlled by foreign persons with other business enterprises in the United
 States with respect to employment, market share, value added, productivity,
 research and development, exports, imports, profitability, taxes paid, and
 investment incentives and services provided by State and local governments
 (including quasi-governmental entities).
 (2) Each such analysis shall be done by significant industry sectors and
 geographical regions, except that information shall not be presented in a
 way in which any person, including any business enterprise or establishment,
 can be identified. The restriction contained in the preceding sentence on
 presentation of information does not apply to information that is obtained
 from foreign governments or agencies thereof and that has been published
 pursuant to the lawful disclosure of the information. To the extent that
 data are available, each such analysis shall include an analysis, together
 with current levels and trends, of the number and market share of business
 enterprises at least 10 percent of the voting securities or other evidences
 of ownership of which are owned or controlled by a foreign person, and of the
 number and market share of the establishments of such business enterprises,
 that are engaged substantially in the production or coproduction of any
 critical technologies included in the most recent plan submitted to the
 Congress under section 2368 of title 10, United States Code, or included
 in the most recent report submitted to the President under section 603 of
 the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities
 Act of 1976.
SEC. 4. REPORTS BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General, to the extent permitted by law,
 including section 8 of this Act, is authorized to review the information
 described in section 3(b) for purposes of preparing the report required
 under subsection (b) of this section. Nothing in this section authorizes
 disclosure of any individually identifiable data or information in any form
 that can be associated with or otherwise identify, directly or indirectly,
 any person, including any enterprise or establishment.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 5 months after each report issued by the Secretary
 of Commerce under section 3, the Comptroller General of the United States
 shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee
 on Ways and Means, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
 Representatives, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
 of the Senate, and to the Joint Economic Committee of the Congress a report--
 (1) analyzing the report of the Secretary of Commerce;
 (2) making recommendations for changes in the analysis done in the report
 due the following year under section 3;
 (3) making recommendations for improving the collection by respective
 Federal agencies of data on foreign direct investment in the United States,
 including use of private sector data, and improving survey questionnaires to
 obtain useful and consistent information that avoids unnecessary redundancy
 among Federal agencies;
 (4) reviewing the status and processes for reconciliation of data exchanged
 as required by this Act and the amendments made by this Act, and making
 any recommendations for improving and augmenting international financial data;
 (5) making recommendations for possible additional policy coordination
 within the executive branch affecting foreign direct investment in the
 United States; and
 (6) making recommendations for improvement of the coverage, industry
 classification, and consistency among Federal agencies of their respective
 surveys.
Reports under this subsection shall be issued only with respect to the first
3 reports issued by the Secretary of Commerce under section 3.
 (c) OTHER REVIEWS AND REPORTS- (1) The Comptroller General may, to the extent
 permitted by law, including section 5(c) of the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3104(c)) and section 8 of this Act,
 also review data and information at the Bureau of the Census, the Bureau of
 Labor Statistics, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis and from time to time
 report to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Ways and
 Means, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives,
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
 and to the Joint Economic Committee of the Congress.
 (2) The Comptroller General shall, in carrying out paragraph (1), comply
 with procedures relating to access to and disclosure of data and information
 established within the Federal statistical agencies referred to in paragraph
 (1), and maintain any and all individually identifiable data and information
 at the statistical agency where the information is reviewed.
 (d) CONFIDENTIALITY; REVIEW BY OTHER AGENCIES- In preparing any report
 under this section, the Comptroller General shall not--
 (1) disclose any confidential business information or present any
 information in a way in which any person, including a business enterprise
 or establishment, can be identified; or
 (2) combine, match, or use in any other way individually identifiable data or
 information maintained by any of the Federal statistical agencies referred
 to in subsection (c) with any other individually identifiable confidential
 data or information that is not collected by such statistical agencies.
Before issuing any such report, the Comptroller General shall in each instance
submit the report to the head or heads of the agency or agencies from which
confidential or identifiable information described in the preceding sentence
was obtained. The agency or agencies concerned shall promptly review the report
for the purpose of assuring that the confidentiality of such information and
identity is maintained, and for any other purpose, and shall provide the
Comptroller General with appropriate comments or other suggestions within
10 working days after receiving the report.
 (e) RIGHT OF ACCESS- The access by the Comptroller General to information
 under this Act shall be in conformity with section 716 of title 31, United
 States Code.
SEC. 5. ACCESS TO CENSUS DATA BY BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.
 (a) ACCESS TO DATA- Title 13, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
`CHAPTER 10--EXCHANGE OF CENSUS INFORMATION
`Sec.
`401. Exchange of census information with Bureau of Economic Analysis.
`Sec. 401. Exchange of census information with Bureau of Economic Analysis.
 `(a) EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION- The Bureau of the Census shall exchange with
 the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce information
 collected under this title, and under the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act, that pertains to any business enterprise that
 is operating in the United States, if the Secretary of Commerce determines
 such information is appropriate to augment and improve the quality of data
 collected under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey
 Act. Information provided to the Bureau of Economic Analysis by the Bureau
 of the Census shall be only those data collected directly from respondents
 by the Bureau of the Census.
 `(b) REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION- The Director of the Bureau requesting
 information under this section shall make the request in writing and shall
 certify that the information will be used only for statistical activities
 performed to improve the quality of data collected under the authority of
 title 13, United States Code, and the International Investment and Trade
 in Services Survey Act.
 `(c) DEFINITION- As used in subsection (a), the terms `business enterprise'
 and `United States' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of
 the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) The table of chapters at the beginning of
 title 13, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
401'.
 (2) Section 9(a) of title 13, United States Code,  is amended by inserting
 after `section 8' the following: `or chapter 10'.
SEC. 6. AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT AND TRADE IN SERVICES
SURVEY ACT.
 (A) PURPOSE- Section 2(b) of the International Investment and Trade in
 Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3101(b)) is amended by inserting after `the
 impact of such investment and trade,' in the first sentence the following: `to
 authorize the collection and use of information on direct investments owned
 or controlled directly or indirectly by foreign governments or persons,'.
 (b) REPORTING REQUIREMENT- Section 4(a)(5) of the International Investment
 and Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3103(a)(5)) is amended by
 inserting before the period the following: `, including, with respect to
 foreign direct investment in the United States, information on ownership
 by foreign governments of United States affiliates by country, and tables,
 on an aggregated basis, of business enterprises the ownership or control of
 which by foreign persons is more than 50 percent of the voting securities or
 other evidences of ownership of such enterprises, and business enterprises
 the ownership or control of which by foreign persons is 50 percent or less
 of the voting securities or other evidences of ownership of such enterprises'.
 (c) BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REPORT- Section 4 of the International
 Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3103) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h)(1) The President, or the designee of the President responsible
 for monitoring the impact of foreign investment in the United States,
 coordinating implementation of United States policy on investment,
 and investigating foreign acquisitions under section 721 of the Defense
 Production Act of 1950 (50 App. U.S.C. 2170), may request a report from
 the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce. When such
 request is made in connection with an investigation under such section 721,
 the report shall be provided within 14 days after the request is made. When
 such request is not made in connection with an investigation under such
 section 721, the report shall be provided within 60 days after the request.
 `(2) A report requested under paragraph (1) shall contain the best available
 information on the extent of foreign direct investment in a given industry,
 including a breakdown of total investment in the industry, and any foreign
 government investment in the industry, by country of the foreign owner, and
 any other information that the Bureau of Economic Analysis or such designee
 of the President considers relevant. The industry information provided shall
 be at the most detailed level available of Standard Industrial Classification,
 subject to the requirements of section 5.'.
 (d) ACCESS TO INFORMATION- Section 5 of the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3104) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
 `(d) The Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce is authorized,
 for purposes of augmenting and improving the quality of data collected by
 the Bureau of the Census, to have, upon written request, access to data
 relating to business enterprises that is collected directly by the Bureau of
 Economic Analysis for purposes of this Act. The Bureau of Labor Statistics
 of the Department of Labor is authorized, for purposes of augmenting and
 improving the data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, to have
 access, upon written request, to selected identification information on
 business enterprises and data on international services transactions, that
 is collected directly by the Bureau of Economic Analysis for purposes of
 this Act. Officers and employees of the Bureau of the Census and the Bureau
 of Labor Statistics shall, for purposes of subsection (c), be deemed to be
 officials or employees designated to perform functions under this Act.'.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 5 of the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)(2) by striking `(d)' and inserting `(e)'; and
 (2) in subsection (e), as redesignated by subsection (d)(1) of this section,
 by inserting `or (d)' after `(c)'.
SEC. 7. ACCOUNTABILITY FOR TIMELY REPORTING.
 (a) AFFIRMATION BY A RESPONSIBLE OFFICER- Section 5(b) of the International
 Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3104(b)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following: `When a report under paragraph (2)
 is furnished under oath, such oath shall be by the officer of such person
 who is directly responsible for the maintenance and compilation of such
 information, and shall certify that the report was prepared in accordance with
 this Act, is complete, and is to such officer's best knowledge and belief,
 substantially accurate, except in a case in which, in accordance with rules
 and regulations issued under this Act, estimates have been provided because
 data are not available from customary accounting records or precise data
 could not be obtained without undue burden, and the data subject to such
 estimates has been noted in the report.'.
 (b) CIVIL PENALTIES- Section 6(a) of the International Investment and
 Trade in Services Survey Act (22  U.S.C. 3105(a)) is amended by striking
 `may be subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $10,000' and inserting
 `shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500, and not more
 than $25,000,'.
SEC. 8. ACCESS TO INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY.
 (a) CONFIDENTIALITY- (1) Those officers and employees who have access to
 information under this Act to which the provisions of section 9 of title 13,
 United States Code, apply must have been sworn, as provided for in section
 23(c) of such title, to observe the limitations imposed by section 9(a)
 of such title and to be subject to the provisions of section 214 of such
 title to the same extent as such section applies to officers or employees
 of the Bureau of the Census.
 (2) Only those officers and employees who have sworn to observe the provisions
 of section 5(c) of the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey
 Act (22  U.S.C. 3104(c)) may have access under this Act to information to
 which such provisions apply, and such officers and employees are subject
 to the penalties for improper disclosure of such information provided in
 section 5(e) of that Act to the same extent as such section applies to
 officers or employees designated to perform functions under that Act.
 (3) Those officers and employees referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
 this section shall be subject to any other restriction or penalty imposed
 by law with respect to disclosure of information to which such officers or
 employees have access under this Act.
 (b) VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES- Whoever is in possession of information
 made available to any department or agency by virtue of this Act or the
 amendments made by this Act and discloses the information in any form which
 can be associated with, or otherwise identify, any person, including any
 business enterprise or establishment, shall be fined not less than $2,500
 nor more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
 (c) UNLAWFUL ACCESS- Whoever procures, by fraud, misrepresentation, or
 other unlawful act, access to information made available to any department
 or agency by virtue of this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall
 be fined not less than $2,500 nor more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more
 than 5 years, or both.
 (d) INFORMATION IMMUNE FROM PROCESS- Information obtained under this Act
 shall be immune from legal process and shall not be used as evidence or
 for any purpose in any Federal, State, or local government action, suit,
 or other administrative or judicial proceeding except as necessary to
 enforce requirements imposed by law on the collection of information,
 to enforce the provisions of subsections (b) and (c).
 (e) IMPLEMENTATION- (1) The Secretary of Commerce shall be responsible for
 the implementation of the exchange of information under this Act between the
 Bureau of the Census and the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and shall resolve
 any questions on access to information, data, or methodology that may arise
 between the Bureau of the Census and the Bureau of Economic Analysis, except
 that the Secretary shall not construe this section in a manner which would
 prevent the augmentation and improvement of the quality of international
 data collected under the International Investment and Trade in Services
 Survey Act. The Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census
 shall agree in writing to the data to be shared under this Act.
 (2) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall be responsible
 for the implementation of the exchange of information under this Act between
 the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and
 shall resolve any questions on access to information, data, or methodology
 that may arise between the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of
 Labor Statistics, except that the Director shall not construe this section
 in a manner which would prevent the augmentation and improvement of the
 quality of international data collected under the International Investment
 and Trade in Services Survey Act.
SEC. 9. CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall
 be construed to require any business enterprise or any of its officers,
 directors, shareholders, or employees, or any other person, to provide
 information beyond that which is required before the enactment of this Act.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- All departments and agencies implementing this Act
 and the amendments made by this Act shall, with respect to surveys or
 questionnaires used in such implementation--
 (1) eliminate questions that are no longer necessary,
 (2) cooperate with one another in order to ensure that questions asked are
 consistent among the departments and agencies, and
 (3) develop new questions in order to obtain more refined statistics and
 analyses,
consistent with the purposes of the provisions of law amended by this Act
and the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
SEC. 10. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act--
 (1) the terms `foreign', `direct investment', `international investment',
 `United States', `business enterprise', `foreign person', and `United States
 person' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the International
 Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3102); and
 (2) the term `foreign direct investment in the United States' means direct
 investment by foreign persons in any business enterprise that is a United
 States person.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.