 
--S.2680--
S.2680
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the conveyance of lands to certain individuals in Stone County,
Arkansas.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) certain landowners in Stone County, Arkansas, who own property adjacent
 to the Ozark National Forest have been adversely affected by certain
 erroneous surveys;
 (2) these landowners have occupied or improved their property in good faith
 and in reliance on erroneous surveys of their properties that they believed
 were accurate; and
 (3) the 1975 Bureau of Land Management dependent resurvey of the Ozark
 National Forest correctly established accurate boundaries between such
 forest and private lands.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to authorize and direct the
 Secretary of Agriculture to convey, without consideration, certain lands
 in Stone County, Arkansas, to persons claiming to have been deprived of
 title to such lands.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act the term--
 (a) `affected lands' means those Federal lands located in the Ozark National
 Forest in Stone County, Arkansas, in sections 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, and 12,
 township 15 north, range 12 west, Fifth Principal Meridian, as described
 by the dependent resurvey by the Bureau of Land Management conducted in
 1975, and subsequent Forest Service land line location surveys, including
 all adjacent parcels where the property line as identified by the 1975 BLM
 dependent resurvey and National Forest boundary lines before such dependent
 resurvey are not coincident;
 (b) `claimant' means an owner of real property in Stone County, Arkansas,
 located adjacent to the Ozark National Forest lands described in subsection
 (a), who claims to have been deprived by the United States of title to
 property as a result of previous erroneous surveys; and
 (c) `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF LANDS.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized and
 directed to convey, without consideration, all right, title, and interest
 of the United States in and to affected lands as described in section 2(a),
 to any claimant or claimants, upon proper application from such claimant
 or claimants, as provided in section 4.
SEC. 4. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF CONVEYANCE.
 (a) NOTIFICATION- Not later than two years after the date of enactment
 of this Act, claimants shall notify the Secretary, through the Forest
 Supervisor of the Ozark National Forest, in writing of their claim to
 affected lands. Such claim shall be accompanied by--
 (1) a description of the affected lands claimed;
 (2) information relating to the claim of ownership of such lands; and
 (3) such other information as the Secretary may require.
 (b) ISSUANCE OF DEED- (1) Upon a determination by the Secretary that issuance
 of a deed for affected lands is consistent with the purpose and requirements
 of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a quitclaim deed to such claimant
 for the parcel to be conveyed.
 (2) Prior to the issuance of any such deed as provided in paragraph (1),
 the Secretary shall ensure that--
 (A) the parcel or parcels to be conveyed have been surveyed in accordance
 with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Forest Service and the
 Bureau of Land Management, dated November 11, 1989; and
 (B) all new property lines established by such surveys have been monumented
 and marked.
 (3) The Federal Government shall be responsible for all surveys and property
 line markings necessary to implement this subsection.
 (c) NOTIFICATION TO BLM- The Secretary shall submit to the Secretary of the
 Interior an authenticated copy of each deed issued pursuant to this Act no
 later than thirty days after the date such deed is issued.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.