 
--S.2628--
S.2628
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain National
Institute of Mental Health grants and to improve provisions concerning the
State comprehensive mental health services plan, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Mental Health Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF DEMONSTRATION GRANTS FOR HEALTH SERVICES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 520(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290cc-13(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) SERIOUSLY MENTALLY ILL INDIVIDUALS, AND CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS WITH
 SERIOUS EMOTIONAL AND MENTAL DISTURBANCES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National
 Institute of Mental Health, may make grants to States, political subdivisions
 of States, and nonprofit private agencies for--
 `(A) mental health services demonstration projects for the planning,
 coordination and improvement of community services (including outreach and
 consumer-run self-help services) for seriously mentally ill individuals and
 their families, seriously emotionally and mentally disturbed children and
 youth and their families, and seriously mentally ill homeless and elderly
 individuals;
 `(B) demonstration projects for the prevention of youth suicide;
 `(C) demonstration projects for the improvement of the recognition,
 assessment, treatment and clinical management of depressive disorders;
 `(D) demonstration projects for programs to prevent the occurrence of sex
 offenses, and for the provision of treatment and psychological assistance
 to the victims of sex offenses; and
 `(E) demonstration projects for programs to provide mental health services
 to victims of family violence.
 `(2) MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES- Mental health services provided under paragraph
 (1)(A) should encompass a range of delivery systems designed to permit
 individuals to receive treatment in the most therapeutically appropriate,
 least restrictive setting. Grants shall be awarded under such paragraph for--
 `(A) research demonstration programs concerning such services; and
 `(B) systems improvements to assist States and local entities to develop
 appropriate comprehensive mental health systems for adults with serious
 long-term mental illness and children and adolescents with serious emotional
 and mental disturbance.'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 520(e)(1) of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc-13(e)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(1) For the purposes of carrying out this section, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $40,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may
 be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 3. STATE COMPREHENSIVE MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES PLAN.
 (a) FUNDING FOR PLANS-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 1924(c) of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-10(c)) is amended by inserting before the
 period the following: `, and $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991
 through 1993'.
 (2) ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY FOR USE OF FUNDS UNDER SUBPART 1- Section
 1915 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-3) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) Amounts paid to a State under section 1914 may be used by the State for
 the purpose of developing and implementing State comprehensive mental health
 plans in accordance with section 1925. With respect to compliance with the
 limitation established in subsection (d), none of the expenditures by the
 State for the purpose described in the preceding sentence from amounts
 received under section 1914 may be considered to have been expended for
 administering the amounts.'.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANS- Section 1925 of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 300x-11) is amended--
 (1) by striking `chronically mentally ill individual' each place such term
 appears and inserting `individual with a serious mental illness';
 (2) by striking `chronically mentally ill individuals' each place such term
 appears and inserting `individuals with serious mental illnesses';
 (3) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period the following: `and
 children with serious emotional and mental disorders';
 (B) in paragraph (3), by striking `describe services to be provided' and
 inserting the following: `describe services, available treatment options,
 and available resources (including Federal, State and local public services
 and resources, and to the extent practicable, private services and resources)
 to be provided';
 (C) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as paragraphs (6) through
 (9), respectively;
 (D) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
 `(4) The State plan shall describe health and mental health services,
 rehabilitation services, employment services, housing services, educational
 services, medical and dental care, and other support services to be provided
 to individuals and children with serious emotional and mental disorders
 with Federal, State and local public and private resources to enable such
 individuals to function outside of inpatient or residential institutions to
 the maximum extent of their capabilities, including services to be provided
 by local school systems under the Education of the Handicapped Act.
 `(5) The State plan shall describe the financial resources and staffing
 necessary to implement the requirements of such plan.'; and
 (E) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(10) The State plan shall describe a system of integrated social services,
 educational services, juvenile services, substance abuse services which
 together with health and mental health services, should be provided in order
 for children and adolescents with serious emotional and mental disorders
 to receive care appropriate for their multiple needs, including services to
 be provided by local school systems under the Education of the Handicapped
 Act.'; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(e) The State shall utilize the State mental health planning council
 described in section 1916(e), or establish a new council with comparable
 membership requirements, to advise, review, monitor and evaluate all aspects
 of the development and implementation of the State plan. The comments of
 such council shall be formally transmitted to the Governor of the State
 prior to the submission of such plan to the Secretary and such comments
 should be transmitted to the Secretary together with such plan.
 `(f) Not later than March 30 of each year, the Secretary shall prepare
 and submit, to the appropriate Committees of Congress, a report concerning
 the development and implementation of the State plans. Such reports shall
 include--
 `(1) the status of the implementation of such plans by the States;
 `(2) a description of the extent of the participation of the councils
 described in subsection (e) in such development and implementation;
 `(3) a description of the coordinated services for children and adults
 conducted under such plans;
 `(4) the extent to which State and local public, and private resources are
 utilized in the enhancement and delivery of designated services; and
 `(5) a quantitative measurement of the improvement in services projected
 and achieved under the plan.'.
 (c) ENFORCEMENT- Section 1926 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 300x-12) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `1991' and inserting `1992'; and
 (B) by striking `1990' and inserting `1991';
 (2) in subsection (c), in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking `1992' and inserting `1993'; and
 (B) by striking `1991' and inserting `1992';
 (3) in subsection (d), in the second sentence, by striking `the State is
 permitted to expend for administrative expenses' and inserting `that the State
 received under subpart 1, as such subpart existed on October 1, 1985'; and
 (4) in subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking `for any fiscal year' and inserting `during the period
 covered by the plan';
 (B) by striking `for such fiscal year' and inserting `during such period'; and
 (C) by inserting before the period the following: `, taking into consideration
 savings on inpatient hospitalization that can reasonably be anticipated to
 result from a well designed and implemented plan'.
 (d) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 902(c) of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 299a(c)) is amended by striking `subsection (b)'
 and inserting `subsection (a)'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.