 
--S.2753--
S.2753
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To revise and extend the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of
Rights Act.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Developmental Disabilities Assistance and
 Bill of Rights Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. REFERENCE.
 Except as otherwise provided, whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal
 is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other
 provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other
 provision of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 Section 101 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `there are more than two' in paragraph (1) and inserting
 `in 1990 there are more than three';
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (8) and (9),
 respectively; and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph:
 `(7) a substantial portion of persons with developmental disabilities remain
 unserved or underserved;'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (8); and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraphs:
 `(3) to provide interdisciplinary training and technical assistance to
 professionals, paraprofessionals, family members, and individuals with
 developmental  disabilities;
 `(4) to advocate for public policy change and community acceptance of
 all people with developmental disabilities and their families so that such
 persons receive the services, supports and other assistance and opportunities
 necessary to enable such persons to achieve their maximum potential through
 increased independence, productivity and integration into the community;
 `(5) to promote the inclusion of all persons with developmental disabilities,
 including persons with the most severe disabilities, in community life;
 `(6) to promote the interdependent activity of all persons with developmental
 disabilities, including persons with the most severe disabilities;
 `(7) to recognize the contribution of all persons with developmental
 disabilities as such persons share their talents at home, school, and work,
 and in recreation and leisure time; and'.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 102 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (5)--
 (A) by inserting `5 years of age or older' after `of a person';
 (B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting a
 semicolon; and
 (C) by adding after and below subparagraph (E) the following:
`except that such term, when applied to infants and young children means
individuals from birth to age 5, inclusive, who have substantial developmental
delay or specific congenital or acquired conditions with a high probability
of resulting in developmental disabilities if services are not provided.';
 (2) in paragraph (8), by striking `nondisabled citizens' each place such
 term appears and inserting `citizens without disabilities';
 (3) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of clause (i);
 (B) by inserting `and integrated employment,' after `activities' in clause
 (ii); and
 (C) by inserting before the matter at the end of subparagraph (A) the
 following new clauses:
 `(iii) use of the same community resources by persons with developmental
 disabilities living, learning, working, and enjoying life in regular contact
 with citizens without disabilities, and
 `(iv) development of friendships and relationships with persons without
 disabilities,';
 (4) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8), by striking `or in home-like
 settings';
 (5) in paragraph (9), by striking `specialized services or special adaptation
 of generic services' each place such term appears and inserting `special
 adaptation of generic services or specialized services';
 (6) in clause (iv) of paragraph (9)(B)--
 (A) by striking `models' and inserting `approaches, strategies'; and
 (B) by inserting `Federal, State and local' before `policymakers';
 (7) in paragraph (10), by striking `case management' and inserting `system
 coordination and community education';
 (8) in paragraph (12), by striking `and family support services' and inserting
 `, individual, family and community supports';
 (9) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (17), by inserting `and their families'
 after `disabilities' each place such appears;
 (10) by striking paragraph (21) and inserting the following new paragraph:
 `(21) The term `protection and advocacy system' means a protection and
 advocacy system established in accordance with section 142.';
 (11) in paragraph (22), by inserting at the end thereof the following new
 sentence: `Such term includes assistive technology devices and assistive
 technology service.'; and
 (12) by inserting at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(24) The term `family support service' means services, supports, and other
 assistance provided to families with members with developmental disabilities,
 that are designed to--
 `(A) strengthen the family's role as primary caregiver,
 `(B) prevent inappropriate out of the home placement and maintain family
 unity, and
 `(C) reunite families with members who have been placed out of the home.
Such term includes respite care, assistive technology, personal assistance,
parent training and counseling, support for elderly parents, vehicular and
home modifications, and assistance with extraordinary expenses associated
with the needs of the person with a developmental disability.
 `(25) The term `individual supports' means services, supports, and other
 assistance that enable persons with developmental disabilities to be
 independent, productive, and integrated into their communities, and that
 are designed to--
 `(A) enable the person to control his or her environment, permitting the
 most independent life possible,
 `(B) prevent placement into a more restrictive living arrangement than is
 necessary, and
 `(C) enable the person to live, learn, work, and enjoy life in the community.
Such term includes personal assistance services, assistive technology,
vehicular and home modifications, support at work, and transportation.
 `(26) The term `community supports' means providing activities, services,
 supports, and other assistance to persons with developmental disabilities,
 and the families and communities of such persons, that are designed to--
 `(A) assist neighborhoods and communities to be more responsive to the
 needs of persons with developmental disabilities and their families,
 `(B) develop local networks which can provide informal support, and
 `(C) make communities accessible and enable communities to offer their
 resources and opportunities to persons with developmental disabilities and
 their families.
Such term includes community education, personal assistance services,
vehicular and home modifications, support at work, and transportation.
 `(27) The term `system coordination and community education activities'
 means activities that--
 `(A) eliminate barriers to access and eligibility for services, supports,
 and other assistance,
 `(B) enhance systems design and integration including the encouragement of
 the creation of local case management and information and referral statewide
 systems, and
 `(C) enhance individual, family and citizen participation and involvement.
 `(28) The term `assistive technology device' means any item, piece of
 equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially, modified
 or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional
 capabilities of a person with a developmental disability.
 `(29) The term `assistive technology service' means any service that
 directly assists a person with a developmental disability in the selection,
 acquisition, or use of an assistive technology device. Such term includes--
 `(A) the evaluation of the needs of a person with a developmental disability,
 including a functional evaluation of the person in the person's customary
 environment;
 `(B) purchasing, leasing or otherwise providing for the acquisition of
 assistive technology devices by a person with a developmental disability;
 `(C) selecting, designing, fitting, customizing, adapting, applying,
 maintaining, repairing or replacing assistive technology devices;
 `(D) coordinating and using other therapies, interventions, or services with
 assistive technology devices, such as therapies, interventions or services
 associated with existing education and rehabilitation plans and programs;
 `(E) training or technical assistance for a person with developmental
 disabilities, or, where appropriate, the family of a person with a
 developmental disability; and
 `(F) training or technical assistance for professionals (including persons
 providing education and rehabilitation services), employers, or other persons
 who provide services to, employ, or are otherwise substantially involved
 in the major life functions of a person with developmental disability.
 `(30) The term `prevention' means activities which address the causes of
 developmental disabilities and the exacerbation of functional limitations,
 such as activities which--
 `(A) eliminate or reduce the factors which cause or predispose persons to
 developmental disabilities or which increase the prevalence of developmental
 disabilities;
 `(B) increase the early identification of existing problems to eliminate
 circumstances that create or increase functional limitations; and
 `(C) mitigate against the effects of developmental disabilities throughout
 the person's lifespan.'.
SEC. 5. FEDERAL SHARE.
 Section 103 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `located' and inserting `whose activities
 or products target people who live';
 (2) in subsection (b) by striking `is located' and inserting `activities
 or products target people who live'; and
 (3) in subsection (c) by inserting `part B of' before `this'.
SEC. 6. REPORTS.
 Section 107 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `each annual survey' and all that follows through the
 semicolon in paragraph (4) and inserting `any intermediate care facility
 for the mentally retarded in such State, and with respect to each annual
 survey report prepared pursuant to section 1902(a)(31)(C) of the Social
 Security Act and each correction or reduction plan prepared pursuant to
 section 1922 of such Act;'; and
 (B) in paragraph (5)--
 (i) by striking `and advocacy for,' and inserting `advocacy for, and other
 actions on behalf of and with';
 (ii) by inserting `particularly unserved and underserved groups,' after
 `impairments,'; and
 (iii) by striking `that the State Planning Council may identify under
 sections 122(b)(3) and 122(f)' and inserting `, and a summary of actions
 taken to improve access to and services for unserved and underserved groups
 that the State Planning Council may have identified';
 (2) in subsection (c)(1)--
 (A) by striking `April' and inserting `July'; and
 (B) by striking `the Handicapped' and inserting `Disability'; and
 (3) in subsection (c)(1)(C)--
 (A) by striking `and advocacy for,' and inserting `advocacy for, and other
 actions on behalf of,';
 (B) by inserting `particularly unserved or underserved groups,' after
 `impairments,';
 (C) by striking `may identify' and inserting `has identified'; and
 (D) by inserting `, and a summary of actions taken to improve access to
 services for such groups' before the semicolon.
SEC. 7. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SECRETARY.
 Section 108(b) of the Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting after `Developmental Disabilities' the second place
 such term appears the following: `the Administration on Children, Youth
 and Families, the Administration on Aging, and the Health Resources and
 Services Administration,'; and
 (2) by inserting at the end thereof the following: `Each meeting of the
 interagency committee (except for any meetings of any subcommittees of
 the committee) shall be open to the public. Notice of each meeting, and a
 statement of the agenda for the meeting, shall be published in the Federal
 Register not later than 14 days before the date on which the meeting is
 to occur.'.
SEC. 8. EMPLOYMENT.
 Section 109 of the Act is amended by striking `1973'.
SEC. 9. RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES.
 Section 110(4)(A) of the Act is amended by striking `January 17, 1974
 (39 Fed. Reg. pt. II)' and inserting `June 3, 1988'.
SEC. 10. PURPOSE.
 Section 121 of the Act is amended by inserting `and their families' before
 `through the conduct of'.
SEC. 11. STATE PLAN.
 Section 122 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B) of subsection (b), by amending the first sentence
 to read as follows: `The plan must designate the State agency (hereafter in
 this part referred to as the `designated State agency') which, on behalf
 of the State, shall receive, account for, and disburse funds under this
 part based on the State plan required in section 122, and shall provide
 required assurances and other administrative support services.';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(C) of subsection (b)--
 (A) by inserting `, supports and other assistance' after `scope of services';
 (B) by inserting `, or policies affecting,' before `federally';
 (C) by inserting `or may be' before `eligible to';
 (D) by inserting `child welfare,' after `social services,';
 (E) by inserting `transportation, technology,' after `housing,';
 (F) by striking `other plans' and inserting `other programs'; and
 (G) by striking `and (ii)' and inserting `(ii) the extent to which such
 federally assisted State programs develop and pursue interagency initiatives
 aimed at improving and enhancing services, supports and other assistance,
 which result in increased independence, productivity, and integration into
 the community for persons with developmental disabilities, and (iii)';
 (3) in paragraph (2) of subsection (b)--
 (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (E) and
 (F), respectively;
 (B) by inserting `and their families' after `disabilities' in subparagraph
 (C)(iii) (as so redesignated); and
 (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) assess, and if appropriate, update the findings of the report conducted
 pursuant to subsection (f), and report on any progress achieved concerning
 issues identified in the report conducted pursuant to such subsection in
 the previous fiscal year;';
 (4) in paragraph (5)(B) of subsection (b)--
 (A) by redesignating clauses (iii) through (vi) as clauses (v) through
 (viii), respectively; and
 (B) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new clauses:
 `(iii) an analysis of the special and common needs of all subpopulations
 of persons with developmental disabilities;
 `(iv) consideration of the report conducted pursuant to subsection (f);';
 (5) in paragraph (5)(D)(i) of subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `and the implementation' and inserting `the implementation';
 and
 (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following: `, and activities which address the implementation of
 recommendations made in the report described in subsection (f), including
 recommendations which address unserved and underserved populations.';
 (6) in paragraph (1) of subsection (d)--
 (A) by striking `administration of the State Plan approved under this section'
 and inserting `exercise of the functions of the State designated agency';
 (B) by striking `all of the State agencies designated under subsection
 (b)(1)(B) for the administration or supervision of the administration of
 the State plan' and inserting `the State agency designated under subsection
 (b)(1)(B)'; and
 (C) by inserting at the end thereof the following new sentence: `State
 contributions pursuant to this paragraph may be counted as part of such
 State's non-Federal share of allotments under this part.';
 (7) by adding at the end of subsection (e) the following new paragraph:
 `(5) After October 1, 1990, the Planning Council may issue a request for a
 review of the designation of the designated State agency by the Governor.';
 and
 (8) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (f) and inserting the
 following new paragraph:
 `(4) Each State Planning Council shall utilize the information developed
 pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) in developing the State plan.'.
SEC. 12. STATE PLANNING COUNCILS.
 Section 124 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking `which will' and inserting `to'; and
 (B) by striking the period at the end thereof and inserting `by carrying
 out priority area activities.';
 (2) in paragraph (1) of subsection (c)--
 (A) by striking `may' and inserting `shall'; and
 (B) by striking `hire' and inserting `fund all activities under this part
 (except administrative costs described in section 122(d)(1)) and to hire';
 (3) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
 (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) Each State Planning Council shall, consistent with State law, hire a
 Director of the State Planning Council who shall be supervised and evaluated
 by the State Planning Council and who shall hire and supervise the staff
 of the State Planning Council.'; and
 (4) in paragraph (1) of subsection (d) by striking `jointly with' and
 inserting `and submit after consultation with'.
SEC. 13. STATE ALLOTMENTS.
 Paragraphs (3), (4), (5) and 6 of subsection (a) of section 125 of the Act
 are amended to read as follows:
 `(3)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (4), for any fiscal year the
 allotment under paragraph (1)--
 `(i) to each of American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth
 of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
 the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau may not be
 less than $200,000; and
 `(ii) to any other State may not be less than the greater of $350,000 or
 the amount of the allotment (determined without regard to subsection (d))
 received by the State for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990.
 `(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the aggregate of the amounts to
 be allotted to each State pursuant to subparagraph (A) in any fiscal year
 exceeds the total amount appropriated under section 130 for such fiscal
 year, the amount to be allotted to a State for such fiscal year shall be an
 amount which bears the same ratio to the amount which is to be allotted to
 the State pursuant to such subparagraph as the total amount appropriated
 under section 130 for such fiscal years bears to the total of the amount
 required to be appropriated under such section for allotments to provide
 each State with the allotment required by such subparagraph.
 `(4) In any case in which amounts appropriated under section 130 for a
 fiscal year exceeds $65,000,000, the allotment under paragraph (1) for such
 fiscal year--
 `(A) to each of American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth
 of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
 the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau may not be
 less than $210,000; and
 `(B) to each of the several States, Puerto Rico or the District of Columbia
 may not be less than $400,000.
 `(5) In determining, for purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the extent of need
 in any State for services for persons with developmental disabilities,
 the Secretary shall take into account the scope and extent of the services
 described, pursuant to section 122(b)(2)(C), in the State plan of the State.
 `(6) In any case in which the total amount appropriated under section 130
 for a fiscal year exceeds the total amount appropriated under such section
 for the preceding fiscal year by a percentage greater than the most recent
 percentage change in the Consumer Price Index published by the Secretary
 of Labor under section 100(c)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the
 Secretary shall increase each of the minimum allotments under paragraphs
 (3) and (4) by an amount which bears the same ratio to the amount of such
 minimum allotment (including any increases in such minimum allotment under
 this paragraph for prior fiscal years) as the amount which is equal to the
 difference between--
 `(A) the total amount appropriated under section 130 for the fiscal year
 for which the increase in minimum allotment is being made, minus
 `(B) the total amount appropriated under section 130 for the immediately
 preceding fiscal year,
bears to the total amount appropriated under section 130 for such preceding
fiscal year.'.
SEC. 14. PART B AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 130 of the Act is amended by striking `$62,200,000' and all that
 follows through the period at the end thereof and inserting `$77,400,000
 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 15. SYSTEM REQUIRED.
 Section 142 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) and inserting the following
 new subparagraph:
 `(C) on an annual basis, develop a statement of objectives and priorities,
 and provide to the public, including persons with disabilities and their
 representatives, as appropriate, the developmental disability council
 and the university affiliated program (if applicable within a State), an
 opportunity to comment on the objectives and priorities established by,
 and activities of, the system, including--
 `(i) the objectives and priorities for the system's activities for each year,
 and the rationale for the establishment of such objectives; and
 `(ii) the coordination with the advocacy programs set out in the
 Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Older Americans Act of 1965, and the
 Protection and Advocacy for the Mentally Ill Act.';
 (B) by striking `and' at the end of clause (i) of paragraph (2)(G);
 (C) by inserting `as a result of monitoring or other activities' before
 `there is' in subclause (III) of paragraph (2)(G)(ii) by--
 (D) by inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (2)(G)(ii)(III);
 (E) by inserting after clause (ii) of paragraph (2)(G) the following
 new clause:
 `(iii) any person with a developmental disability who has a legal guardian,
 conservator, or other legal representative with respect to whom a complaint
 has been received by the system or with respect to whom there is probable
 cause to believe the health or safety of the individual is in serious and
 immediate jeopardy whenever--
 `(I) such representatives have been contacted by such system upon receipt
 of the name and address of such representatives;
 `(II) such system has offered assistance to such representatives to resolve
 the situation; and
 `(III) such representatives have failed or refused to act on behalf of the
 person;'; and
 (F) in paragraph (5), by striking `unless notice has been given of the
 intention to make redesignation to persons with developmental disabilities
 or their representatives' and inserting `unless--
 `(A) notice has been given of the intention to make such redesignation to
 the agency that is serving as the system including the good cause for such
 redesignation and the agency has been given an opportunity to respond to
 the assertion that good cause has been shown;
 `(B) timely notice and opportunity for public comment in an accessible
 format has been given to persons with developmental disabilities or their
 representatives; and
 `(C) the system has the opportunity to appeal to the Secretary that the
 redesignation was not for good cause'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `the Secretary may' and inserting
 `the Secretary shall'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
 `(d) In States in which the system is organized as a private nonprofit entity
 with a multimember governing board, or a public system with a multimember
 governing board, such governing board shall be selected according to the
 policies and procedures of the system, except that--
 `(1) the governing board shall be composed of members who broadly represent
 or are knowledgeable about the needs of the individuals served by the system;
 `(2) not more than   1/3  of the membership of the governing board may
 be appointed by the chief executive officer of the State involved, in the
 case of any State in which such officer has the authority to appoint the
 membership of the board; and
 `(3) any vacancy in the board shall be filled not later than 60 days after
 the date on which the vacancy occurs.
 `(e) As used in this section the term `records' includes reports prepared
 or received by any staff of a facility rendering care or treatment, or
 reports prepared by an agency or staff person charged with investigating
 reports of incidents of abuse or neglect, injury or death occurring at
 such facility that describes incidents of abuse, neglect, injury or death
 occurring at such facility and the steps taken to investigate such incidents,
 and discharge planning records.
 `(f) If the laws of a State prohibit a system from obtaining access to records
 of persons with developmental disabilities the provisions of subparagraph
 (A) of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) shall not apply to such system before--
 `(1) the date such system is no longer subject to such prohibition; or
 `(2) the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date of enactment
 of this Act, whichever occurs first.
 `(g)(1) Nothing in this Act shall preclude the systems described under
 this section from bringing a suit on behalf of persons with developmental
 disabilities against a State, or agencies or instrumentalities of a State.
 `(2) Amounts received pursuant to paragraph (1) through court judgments
 and used by the system are limited to furthering the purpose of this part
 and shall not be used to augment payments to legal contractors or to award
 personal bonuses.
 `(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall pay
 directly to any system which complies with the provisions of this section
 the amount of such system's allotment under this section, unless the system
 delegates otherwise.'.
SEC. 16. PART C AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 143 of the Act is amended by striking `$20,000,000' and all that
 follows through the period at the end thereof and inserting `$24,200,000
 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 17. GRANT AUTHORITY.
 Section 152 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
 (A) by striking `sufficient size and scope' in subparagraph (A);
 (B) by striking `and community-based' in subparagraph (A) and inserting
 `community-based'; and
 (C) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (A) and inserting
 the following: `, positive behavior management programs (as described in
 paragraph (5)), assistive technology programs (as described in paragraph
 (6)) and programs in other areas of national significance as determined by
 the university affiliated program, in consultation with the State Planning
 Council (as described in paragraph (7)).';
 (D) by striking subparagraph (B);
 (E) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (F);
 (F) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new subparagraphs:
 `(B)(i) Grants awarded under this subsection shall be in the amount of
 $90,000.
 `(ii) The Secretary may waive the provisions of clause (i) and award
 grants under this subsection in an amount which does not exceed $150,000,
 if the Secretary determines that such grants are of such sufficient scope
 and quality so as to address issues of national significance as identified
 in the report conducted pursuant to section 122(f).
 `(iii) If an appropriately convened peer review panel determines that
 applications submitted by university affiliated programs for training
 programs under this part in any fiscal year insufficiently address quality
 criteria established under subparagraph (D), the Secretary shall, pursuant to
 regulations issued under this Act, award any amounts available for carrying
 out the purposes of this section to other university affiliated programs which
 the Secretary determines will use the funds in accordance with subsection
 (b)(1)(B)(ii). The Secretary may make such awards for a period not to exceed
 3 years to applicants whose applications are determined to be of minimal
 quality by peer review, notwithstanding the provisions of (b)(1)(B)(i).
 `(C) Grants under this section shall be awarded on a competitive basis. Grants
 awarded under this section shall be awarded for a period of 3 years.
 `(D) The Secretary shall require appropriate technical and qualitative peer
 review of applications for assistance under this subsection by peer review
 groups as established under section 153(e)(4) using the following criteria:
 `(i) The university affiliated program shall present evidence that core
 training assisted by funds awarded under this section is--
 `(I) competency and value based;
 `(II) designed to facilitate independence, productivity and integration
 for persons with developmental disabilities; and
 `(III) evaluated utilizing state of the art evaluation techniques in the
 programmatic areas selected.
 `(ii) Core training shall--
 `(I) represent state-of-the-art techniques in areas of critical shortage of
 personnel which are identified through consultation with the citizens advisory
 group designated pursuant to subsection (f) and the State Planning Council;
 `(II) be conducted in consultation with the citizens advisory group
 designated under subsection (f) and the State developmental disabilities
 planning council;
 `(III) be integrated into the appropriate university affiliated program
 and university curriculum;
 `(IV) be integrated with relevant State agencies in order to achieve an
 impact on statewide personnel and service needs;
 `(V) to the extent practicable, be conducted in environments where services
 are actually delivered; and
 `(VI) to the extent possible, be interdisciplinary in nature.
 `(E)(i) Grants awarded under this subsection shall not be used for
 administrative expenses.
 `(ii) Grants awarded under this subsection shall not be used to carry out
 the provisions of subsection (a).';
 (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end thereof the following new
 paragraphs:
 `(5) Grants awarded under this subsection for training projects with
 respect to positive behavior management intervention programs shall be
 for the purpose of assisting university affiliated programs in providing
 training to families, foster parents, paraprofessionals, other appropriate
 community-based staff, and institutional staff, including health care staff
 and behavioral specialists, who provide or will provide, positive behavior
 management interventions for persons with developmental disabilities. Such
 training interventions shall include--
 `(A) ethical principles and standards;
 `(B) appropriate assessment of the origin of behavior problems including
 antecedent behaviors, the environment, medical problems (including seizure
 disorders), other neurological problems, or medication side effects;
 `(C) the development of a positive behavior management plan;
 `(D) the use of positive reinforcements appropriate to the developmental
 level of the person;
 `(E) the use of emergency procedures; and
 `(F) the administration of appropriate psychotropic drugs including drugs
 which the person may be taking for other conditions such as seizure disorders.
 `(6) Grants under this subsection for training projects with respect to
 assistive technology programs shall be for the purpose of assisting university
 affiliated programs in providing training to allied health personnel and
 other personnel who provide or will provide, assistive technology services
 to persons with developmental disabilities. Such projects may provide
 training and technical assistance to improve the quality of service delivery
 in community-based, nonprofit consumer and provider service programs for
 persons with developmental disabilities and may include stipends and tuition
 assistance from such organizations. Such projects shall be coordinated with
 State technology coordinating councils wherever such councils exist.
 `(7) Grants under this subsection for training projects with respect to
 programs in other areas of national significance shall be for the purpose
 of training personnel in an area of special concern to the university
 affiliated program, and shall be developed in consultation with the State
 Planning Council.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
 `(f) The Secretary shall only make grants under this section to university
 affiliated programs which establish a consumer advisory committee comprised
 of consumers, family members, representatives of State protection and
 advocacy systems, developmental disabilities councils (including State
 service agency directors),  local agencies, and private nonprofit groups
 concerned with providing services for persons with developmental disabilities.
 `(g) A university affiliated program shall not be eligible to receive funds
 for training projects pursuant to this section unless--
 `(1) such program has operated for at least 1 year; or
 `(2) the Secretary determines that such project has demonstrated the capacity
 to develop an effective training program during the first year such program
 is operated.'.
SEC. 18. APPLICATIONS.
 Section 153 of the Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d)(3)--
 (A) by striking `1988, 1989, and 1990' in subparagraph (A) and inserting
 `1991, 1992, and 1993';
 (B) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the following new sentence:
 `The Secretary shall solicit and may approve applications pursuant to
 this paragraph which encompass multiple universities within the same State
 university system or two or more universities which are otherwise unrelated.';
 (C) by striking `1987' and inserting `1990' in subparagraph (B); and
 (D) by adding at the end of subparagraph (B) the following: `If an
 insufficient number of quality applications, as determined by a peer review
 process, from such unserved States have not been received in any fiscal year,
 the Secretary may consider applications for such fiscal year from States that
 are served by a university affiliated program or satellite center which is
 not able to serve particular geographic regions of the State, only if such
 applications demonstrate a need for additional training within the State
 and an exemplary service capacity to serve individuals within the State.';
 (2) in subsection (e)(1)--
 (A) by striking `by regulation'; and
 (B) by striking the period at the end thereof and inserting the following:
 `, including on-site visits or inspections as necessary.  Such peer review
 shall be coordinated, as appropriate, with the peer review described in
 section 152(b)(1)(D).'.
SEC. 19. PART D AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 154 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 154. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) For the purpose of grants under subsections (a), (d), and (e) of section
 152, there are authorized to be appropriated $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1991,
 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(b) For the purpose of grants under section 152(b) and 152(c), there are
 authorized to be appropriated $5,500,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such
 sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(c) The Secretary may use funds appropriated under subsection (a) for the
 purposes described in subsection (b).'.
SEC. 20. PURPOSE.
 Section 161 of the Act is amended by striking the period at the end thereof
 and inserting the following: `, and to support the development of national and
 State policy which enhances the independence, productivity, and integration of
 persons with developmental disabilities through data collection and analysis,
 technical assistance to program components, technical assistance for the
 development of information and referral systems, educating policymakers,
 Federal interagency initiatives, and the enhancement of minority participation
 in public and private sector initiatives in developmental disabilities.'.
SEC. 21. GRANT AUTHORITY.
 Section 162(a) of the Act is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by inserting `improve supportive living and quality
 of life opportunities which enhance recreation, leisure and fitness,' after
 `referral system,'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2) to read as follows:
 `(2) technical assistance and demonstration projects (including research,
 training, and evaluation in connection with such projects) which expand
 or improve the functions of the State Planning Council, the functions
 performed by university affiliated programs and satellite centers under
 part D, and protection and advocacy system described in section 142.'.
SEC. 22. PART E AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 163 of the Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 163. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- To carry out this part, there are authorized to be
 appropriated $3,650,000 for fiscal year 1991, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(b) LIMITATION- At least 8 percent, but not less than $300,000, of the
 funds appropriated pursuant to the authority of subsection (a) shall be
 used to carry out the provisions of section 162(a)(2).'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.