 
--S.2846--
S.2846
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize and direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study
of the feasibility of establishing a unit of the National Park System to
interpret and commemorate the origins, development, and progression of jazz
in the United States, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SUITABILITY AND FEASIBILITY STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In order to determine an appropriate means of preserving
 and interpreting the origins, development and progression of the music
 known as jazz, a music that has gained worldwide influence and respect
 and represents this Nation's unique contribution to the musical arts, the
 Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the `Secretary'), in
 consultation with the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, shall conduct
 a study of the suitability and feasibility of preserving and interpreting
 the origins of jazz in New Orleans, including establishing, or adding to,
 a unit of the National Park System, or providing technical and financial
 assistance. Such study shall recognize the origins of jazz in New Orleans,
 the city in which the cultural strains that became jazz were fused to form
 this unique American music, and the birthplace of such major jazz artists
 as Jelly Roll Morton, Sidney Bechet, and Louis Armstrong.
 (b) SITES OR STRUCTURES- (1) The study shall include a determination as
 to which sites or structures in New Orleans associated with the origin
 and early history of jazz exhibit the necessary historical and physical
 integrity to make them suitable and feasible for administration, protection,
 and preservation by the National Park System for the use and benefit of
 the public. Prior to making any such determination, the Secretary shall
 consult with and carefully consider the views of affected local citizens
 and neighborhood groups.
 (2) With respect to any such site or structure determined to be suitable
 and feasible, the study shall include an analysis of potential management
 alternatives that involve the participation of public and private entities
 in the preservation of jazz as an American art form, including interpretive
 performances pursuant to cooperative agreements with the Secretary.
 (3) In the event appropriate sites or structures cannot be identified,
 the study shall also consider and make recommendations concerning sites
 which would serve as an appropriate location to commemorate the origins
 and early history of jazz in New Orleans.
 (c) ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS- The study shall also include recommendations
 for--
 (1) public outreach programs;
 (2) the establishment of a jazz education center;
 (3) the appropriate Federal role, including through cooperative agreements,
 in supporting second line bands and in preserving the unique contributions
 to the development of jazz made by neighborhood social and pleasure clubs,
 including recommendations for interpretive performances by such clubs
 and other programs to assure that the contributions of such clubs are
 preserved; and
 (4) the need for the preservation and dissemination of information
 about existing public and private archival collections (with potential
 alternatives for an appropriate Federal role) and possible management
 alternatives including cooperative agreements with existing public and
 private facilities and institutions.
SEC. 2. JEAN LAFITTE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
 The study shall also assess and include a recommendation concerning the
 desirability and feasibility of including any site or structure identified
 pursuant to section 1(b) to be managed as a unit  of the Jean Lafitte
 National Historical Park.
SEC. 3. SUBMISSION OF STUDY.
 The Secretary shall submit the study referred to in section 1 to the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
 Representatives no later than one year after the date funds are made available
 for such study, together with any recommendations for further legislation.
SEC. 4. PRESERVATION OF JAZZ ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION- There is hereby established the
 Preservation of Jazz Advisory Commission (hereinafter referred to as the
 `Commission'). The Commission shall consist of fifteen members who shall
 be appointed within ninety days after enactment of this Act as follows:
 (1) one member to be appointed jointly by the Speaker of the United States
 House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the United
 States Senate;
 (2) the Mayor of the city of New Orleans or the Mayor's designee;
 (3) one member who shall have experience in music education programs
 emphasizing jazz, to be appointed by the Secretary from among recommendations
 submitted by the Mayor of New Orleans;
 (4) one member who is knowledgeable about tourism, to be appointed by
 the Secretary from among recommendations submitted by local business and
 economic development groups;
 (5) one member to be appointed by the Secretary from among recommendations
 submitted by the producers of the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival
 who shall have experience in the production of such Festival;
 (6) one member to be appointed by the Secretary from among recommendations
 submitted by representatives of local historic preservation groups;
 (7) one member who is a recognized musician with knowledge and experience
 in the development of jazz in New Orleans, to be appointed by the Chairman
 of the National Endowment of the Arts;
 (8) one member who is a recognized local expert on the history and development
 of jazz in New Orleans and is familiar with existing local archival materials,
 to be appointed jointly by the Chairman of the National Endowment on the
 Humanities and the Librarian of Congress;
 (9) three members with recognized expertise in jazz, cultural or folklife
 preservation and interpretation, to be appointed by the Secretary of the
 Smithsonian Institution;
 (10) one member to be appointed by the Secretary who shall be a resident
 of the Treme neighborhood of New Orleans;
 (11) one member who shall be selected from recommendations submitted by
 local social and pleasure clubs, to be appointed by the Chairman of the
 National Endowment of the Arts;
 (12) one member to be appointed by the Governor of Louisiana who shall be
 a member of the Louisiana State Music Commission; and
 (13) the Chairman of the Delta Region Preservation Commission who shall
 serve as an ex officio member of the Commission.
 (b) DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION- The Commission shall advise the Secretary
 in the preparation of the suitability and feasibility study required by
 section 1, and the views of the Commission members shall be included in
 the study transmitted to the Congress as provided in section 3.
 (c) MEMBERSHIP- No person who is an employee of the Department of the
 Interior shall be appointed to serve as a member of the Commission.
 (d) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve without
 compensation. Members of the Commission shall be entitled to travel expenses,
 including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons
 employed intermittently in government service under section 5703 of title 5,
 United States Code.
 (e) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its
 members.
 (f) QUORUM- A simple majority of the members of the Commission shall
 constitute a quorum.
 (g) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at least quarterly or upon the call
 of the Chairperson or a majority of its members.
 (h) PUBLIC HEARINGS- The Commission shall hold no less than three public
 hearings in New Orleans to consider the views of the public concerning the
 most appropriate means to commemorate jazz in the United States. At least
 one such hearing shall be held in the Treme neighborhood of New Orleans.
 (i) STAFF- The National Park Service shall provide staff support and technical
 assistance as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Commission.
 (j) TERMINATION OF COMMISSION- The Commission shall terminate 60 days after
 the transmittal of the report to Congress.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.