 
--S.286--
S.286
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish Petroglyph National Monument and Pecos National Historical Park
in the State of New Mexico, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--PETROGLYPH NATIONAL MONUMENT
SECTION 101. SHORT TITLE AND CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
 (a) This title may be cited as the `Petroglyph National Monument Establishment
 Act of 1990'.
 (b) The Congress finds that--
 (1) the nationally significant Las Imagines National Archeological District
 on Albuquerque's West Mesa Escarpment contains more than 15,000 documented
 and prehistoric and historic petroglyphs;
 (2) the district also contains approximately sixty-five other archeological
 sites;
 (3) the West Mesa Escarpment and the petroglyphs are threatened by
 urbanization and vandalism, and hundreds of petroglyphs have already been
 destroyed;
 (4) the State of New Mexico has shown great leadership by recognizing
 the importance of the archeological resources of the West Mesa Escarpment
 through the establishment of the Las Imagines National Archeological District;
 (5) the city of Albuquerque has played a significant role in the preservation
 of the natural, cultural, and recreational resources of the West Mesa
 Escarpment;
 (6) the Middle Rio Grande Pueblo Tribes have shown a strong and sincere
 interest in the preservation of their heritage through protection of the
 West Mesa Escarpment;
 (7) the Atrisco Land Grant, now held by Westland Development Company,
 Incorporated, a corporation whose stock is owned primarily by heirs of the
 Atrisco Land Grant, has played a significant role in the settlement of the
 West Mesa area since 1692, and the corporation's shareholders have shown
 a strong interest in the preservation of their traditional lands;
 (8) the National Park System has no unit established for the specific purpose
 of protecting, preserving, and interpreting prehistoric and historic rock
 art; and
 (9) in light of the national significance of the West Mesa Escarpment and
 the petroglyphs and the urgent need to protect the cultural and natural
 resources of the area from urbanization and vandalism, it is appropriate
 that a national monument be established in the West Mesa Escarpment area,
 near Albuquerque, New Mexico.
SEC. 102. ESTABLISHMENT OF PETROGLYPH NATIONAL MONUMENT.
 (a) In order to preserve, for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future
 generations, that area in New Mexico containing the nationally significant
 West Mesa Escarpment, the Las Imagines National Archeological District,
 a portion of the Atrisco Land Grant, and other significant natural and
 cultural resources, and to facilitate research activities associated with
 the resources, there is hereby established the Petroglyph National Monument
 (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `monument') as a unit of the
 National Park System. The monument shall consist of approximately 5,280
 acres generally known as the Atrisco Unit, as depicted on the map entitled
 `Boundary Map, Petroglyph National Monument', numbered NM-PETR-80,010C and
 dated June 1990, which shall be on file and available for public inspection
 in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
 in the offices of the Department of Energy, Minerals, and Natural Resources
 of the State of New Mexico, and in the office of the mayor of the city of
 Albuquerque, New Mexico.
 (b) The monument shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior
 (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Secretary') or, if the monument
 is expanded pursuant to section 104(a), by the Secretary in cooperation
 with the State of New Mexico (hereinafter in this title referred to as the
 `State') or the city of Albuquerque, New Mexico (hereinafter in this title
 referred to as the `city'), in accordance with section 105.
 (c) Within 6 months after the date of enaction of this title, the Secretary
 shall file a legal description of the monument with the Committee
 on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the
 Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
 Representatives. Such legal description shall have the same force and legal
 description as if included in this title, except that the Secretary may
 correct clerical and typographical errors in such legal description. The
 legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in
 the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, in
 the offices of the Department of Energy, Minerals, and Natural Resources
 of the State of New Mexico, and in the office of the mayor of the city
 of Albuquerque, New Mexico: Provided, That the Secretary may from time to
 time, after completion of the general management plan referred to in section
 108(a), may make minor adjustments to the monument boundary by publication
 of a revised map or other boundary description in the Federal Register.
SEC. 103. LAND ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.
 (a) The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and interests therein within
 the monument boundary by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated
 funds, exchange, or transfer from any other Federal agency, except that
 lands or interests therein owned by the State or a political subdivision
 thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
 (b) Where the surface and subsurface estates of private land to be acquired
 are separately owned, the Secretary shall acquire the subsurface estate
 to such land prior to or at the same time the surface estate is acquired:
 Provided, That this subsection shall not be applicable if the Secretary
 determines that the prior acquisition of the surface estate is necessary--
 (1) to prevent damage to the resources of the monument; or
 (2) to properly manage and interpret the monument in accordance with sections
 102 and 105.
 (c)(1) The Secretary is authorized to exchange Federal lands within the area
 described on the map referred to in section 102(a) as the Piedras Marcadas
 Unit for lands owned by the city within the area described as the Atrisco
 Unit on such map.
 (2) The Secretary is authorized to exchange Federal lands within the area
 described on the map referred to in section 102(a) as the Boca Negra Unit
 for lands owned by the State within the area described as the Atrisco Unit
 on such map.
 (3) Exchanges shall be on the basis of equal value, and either party to
 the exchange may pay or accept cash in order to equalize the value of the
 properties exchanged.
 (d) Prior to acquiring fee simple ownership of private lands or interests
 therein within the monument boundary, the Secretary is authorized to acquire
 an appropriate interest in such land by donation or for a nominal fee from
 the owner or owners of such lands for the purpose of providing immediate
 protection against trespass or vandalism or initiating any resource
 inventories necessary to carry out the purposes of this title.
SEC. 104. EXPANSION OF THE MONUMENT.
 (a) Upon the execution of a binding agreement between the Secretary, the
 State, and the city that the lands identified in this subsection shall be
 perpetually managed in accordance with section 105, the Secretary shall
 include such lands, totaling approximately 1,994 acres, within the monument
 boundary. The lands referred to in this subsection are:
 (1) the approximately 1,779 acres generally known as the Piedras Marcadas
 Unit, as depicted on the map referred to in section 102(a); and
 (2) the approximately 215 acres generally known as the Boca Negra Unit,
 as depicted on the map referred to in section 102(a).
 (b)(1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire, as provided in section 103(a),
 some or all of the approximately 95 acres of land, or interests therein,
 within the area identified as `Potential Addition' on the map referred
 to in section 102(a), if, after consultation with the Petroglyph National
 Monument Advisory Commission established under section 110, the Secretary
 determines that such acquisition would further the purposes of this title.
 (2) The authority of the Secretary to make acquisitions pursuant to paragraph
 (1) shall expire on the date three years after the date of enactment of
 this Act.
 (3) Any lands acquired pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be incorporated into
 the monument and managed accordingly.
SEC. 105. ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE MONUMENT.
 (a) The Secretary shall administer, manage, and protect the monument in
 accordance with the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 et
 seq.), the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), and
 this title, and in such a manner as to preserve, for the benefit and enjoyment
 of present and future generations, its cultural and natural resources,
 and to provide for the interpretation of and research on such resources.
 (b) Units of the monument which may be added pursuant to section 104(a)
 shall be managed and developed in accordance with management and operational
 plans prepared concurrently with the National Park Service, consistent with
 section 108. Visitor use and interpretive programs within such units shall
 be undertaken consistent with plans developed with the assistance of the
 National Park Service.
 (c) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with
 either the State or the city under which the Secretary may manage and
 interpret any lands owned by the State or the city, respectively, within
 the boundaries of the monument.
 (d) In order to encourage a unified and cost effective interpretive program
 of the natural and cultural resources of the West Mesa Escarpment and its
 environs, the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements
 with other Federal, State, and local public departments and agencies,
 Indian tribes, and nonprofit entities providing for the interpretation of
 these resources. Such agreements shall include, but need not be limited to,
 a provision for the Secretary to develop and operate interpretive facilities
 and programs on lands and interests in lands outside the monument boundary,
 with the agreement of the owner or the administrator thereof. Such cooperative
 agreements may also provide for financial and technical assistance for the
 planning and implementation of interpretive programs and minimal development
 related to these programs.
 (e) Federal laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System,
 including but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
 and the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, shall apply to the
 monument. The Secretary is authorized to pursue concurrent jurisdiction
 of the monument for the purposes of law enforcement and implementation of
 Federal regulations.
SEC. 106. LAND USE AND TRANSPORTATION PLANNING.
 The Secretary may participate in land use and transportation management
 planning conducted by appropriate local authorities for lands adjacent to
 the monument and may provide technical assistance to such authorities and
 affected landowners for such planning.
SEC. 107. EXISTING TRANSMISSION OR DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES.
 Nothing in this title shall be construed as authorizing or requiring
 revocation of any interest or easement for existing transmission or
 distribution facilities or prohibiting the operation and maintenance of
 such facilities within or adjacent to the monument boundary.
SEC. 108. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.
 (a) Within 3 years from the date funding is made available for the purposes
 of this section, the Secretary, in cooperation with the city and the State,
 shall develop and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 of the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 of the United States House of Representatives, a general management plan
 for the monument consistent with the purposes of this title, including,
 but not limited to--
 (1) a statement of the number of visitors and types of public use within
 the monument which can be accommodated in accordance with the protection
 of its resources;
 (2) a resource protection program;
 (3) a general interpretive program;
 (4) a plan to implement the joint resolution entitled `American Indian
 Religious Freedom', approved August 11, 1978 (42 U.S.C. 1996);
 (5) a general development plan for the monument, including proposals for
 a visitor's center, and the estimated cost thereof; and
 (6) a plan for the Rock Art Research Center established in section 109.
 (b) The general management plan shall be prepared in consultation with the
 Petroglyph National Monument Advisory Commission established pursuant to
 section 110, appropriate Indian tribes and their civil officials, the heirs
 of the Atrisco Land Grant, the New Mexico State Historical Preservation
 Office, and other interested parties.
 (c) The Secretary shall undertake, in consultation and cooperation with
 appropriate New Mexico Indian tribes and their civil officials, research on
 other Rio Grande style rock art sites on Federal lands in New Mexico, and
 through cooperative agreements with State and willing private landowners,
 on non-Federal lands. The Secretary shall provide the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on
 Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 within 3 years of the date funding is made available for the purposes of
 this section, a report that--
 (1) lists various locations of Rio Grande style rock art;
 (2) identifies the ownership of the rock art;
 (3) identifies the condition of the resources; and
 (4) identifies the appropriate type of technical assistance needed for the
 protection and care of these resources.
The report shall be updated and transmitted to such committees every 2
years thereafter.
SEC. 109. ROCK ART RESEARCH CENTER.
 (a) In order to provide for research relating to Rio Grande style rock art,
 undertake comprehensive evaluations of petroglyphs within the monument,
 prepare interpretive programs that are sensitive to the concerns of the Indian
 and Hispanic peoples, and relate monument resources to other styles and forms
 of rock art, the Secretary, acting through the National Park Service and in
 cooperation with the University of New Mexico, other educational institutions,
 foundations, Indian tribes, and private entities, shall establish a Rock
 Art Research Center (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Center').
 (b) The Center shall function as a focal point for the systematic and
 scholarly collection, analysis, and dissemination of information relating
 to Rio Grande style rock art, and other forms of rock art within the region.
 (c) The Center shall produce research data and educational materials that
 will enhance public understanding of prehistoric and historic rock art.
 (d) The Center shall provide for a broad program of research including
 ethnographic studies, resource management techniques, and comparative
 studies of rock art forms and styles.
 (e) Research shall be primarily directed toward rock art managed by the
 National Park Service. The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements
 with other agencies and entities as may be appropriate to carry out the
 requirements of the Center.
 (f) The Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, is authorized to
 undertake research and assist in the management and protection of Rio Grande
 style rock art sites on public and, with the agreement of the landowner,
 private lands within the Galisteo Basin. The Secretary is authorized to
 enter into cooperative agreements with landowners of such rock art sites and
 expend appropriated funds for research, site protection, and interpretive
 programs. Research shall include the identification and mapping of rock
 art sites and the development of protection options.
SEC. 110. PETROGLYPH NATIONAL MONUMENT ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) There is hereby established the Petroglyph National Monument Advisory
 Commission (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Commission'). The
 Commission shall be composed of eleven members appointed by the Secretary
 for terms of 5 years as follows:
 (1) one member, who shall have professional expertise in history or
 archeology, appointed from recommendations submitted by the Governor of
 the State of New Mexico;
 (2) one member, who shall have professional expertise in history or
 archeology, appointed from recommendations submitted by the mayor of the
 city of Albuquerque, New Mexico;
 (3) one member, who shall have professional expertise in Indian history or
 ceremonial activities, appointed from recommendations submitted by the All
 Indian Pueblo Council;
 (4) one member, who shall be a shareholder of the Westland Development
 Company, Incorporated;
 (5) one member, who shall be an heir of the Atrisco Land Grant;
 (6) one member, who shall be an affected landowner;
 (7) one member, who shall have professional expertise in Indian rock art;
 (8) one member, who shall have professional expertise in cultural
 anthropology;
 (9) one member, who shall have professional expertise in geology;
 (10) one member from the general public; and
 (11) the Director of the National Park Service, or his or her designee,
 ex officio.
 (b) Any member of the Commission may serve after the expiration of his or
 her term until a successor is appointed. A vacancy in the Commission shall
 be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (c) Members of the Commission shall serve without pay. While away from their
 homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the
 Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses,
 including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons
 employed intermittently in Government service are allowed expenses under
 section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
 (d) The Chair and other officers of the Commission shall be elected by a
 majority of the members of the Commission to serve for terms established
 by the Commission.
 (e) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair or a majority of its
 members, but not less than twice annually. Six members of the Commission
 shall constitute a quorum. Consistent with the public meeting requirements
 of section 10 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the
 Commission shall, from time to time, meet with persons concerned with Indian
 history and historic preservation, and with other interested persons.
 (f) The Commission may make such bylaws, rules, and regulations as it
 considers necessary to carry out its functions under this title. Section
 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply
 to the Commission.
 (g) The Commission shall advise the Secretary on the management and
 development of the monument, and on the preparation of the general management
 plan referred to in section 108(a). The Secretary, or his or her designee,
 shall from time to time, but at least semiannually, meet and consult with
 the Commission on matters relating to the management and development of
 the monument.
 (h) The Commission shall cease to exist 10 years after the date of its
 first meeting.
SEC. 111. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for
 the purposes of this title. The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House
 of Representatives, concurrently with the submission to Congress of the
 President's proposed budget for the second fiscal year beginning after the
 date of enactment of this title, and every 5 years thereafter, a report on
 the status of the agreement referred to in section 104(a), its associated
 costs, and any proposed alterations to the agreement.
TITLE II--PECOS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
 SEC. 201. The purpose of this title is--
 (1) to recognize the multitheme history, including the cultural interaction
 among diverse groups of people, of the Pecos area and its `gateway' role
 between the Great Plains and the Rio Grande Valley, and
 (2) to provide for the preservation and interpretation of the cultural and
 natural resources of the Forked Lightning Ranch by establishing the Pecos
 National Historical Park.
 SEC. 202. (a) In order to enhance and preserve the existing Pecos National
 Monument and related nationally significant resources for the benefit and
 enjoyment of present and future generations, there is hereby established
 the Pecos National Historical Park (hereinafter in this title referred to
 as the `park').
 (b) The park shall include the existing Pecos National Monument and the area
 known as the Forked Lightning Ranch which surrounds the Pecos National
 Monument and shall consist of approximately 5,865 acres of the lands
 and interests in lands as generally depicted on the map entitled `Pecos
 National Historical Park Boundary Concept', numbered 430/80028 and dated
 March 1990. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in
 the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The
 Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as the
 `Secretary') may from time to time make minor revisions in the boundary of
 the park in accordance with section 7(c) of the Land and Water Conservation
 Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 and following).
 (c) The Act entitled `An Act to authorize the establishment of Pecos National
 Monument in the State of New Mexico, and for other purposes' approved June 28,
 1965 (79 Stat. 195), is hereby repealed, and any funds available for purposes
 of the Pecos National Monument shall be available for purposes of the park.
 SEC. 203. The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and interests
 therein within the boundaries of the park by donation, purchase with donated
 or appropriated funds, or exchange: Provided, however, That the Secretary
 may not acquire lands within the Forked Lightning Ranch as depicted on the
 map from the owner of record of such lands as of May 1, 1990, without the
 consent of such owner unless the Secretary determines that the lands are
 being used, or that there is an imminent threat that the lands will be used,
 for any purpose that is incompatible with the purposes of this Act.
 SEC. 204. The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with the
 provisions of this title and the provisions of law generally applicable to
 the administration of units of the National Park System, including the Act
 of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), and the Act of August
 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-7).
 SEC. 205. Within 3 full fiscal years from the date funding is made available
 for the purposes of preparing a general management plan, the Secretary shall
 develop and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
 of Representatives, a general management plan for the park consistent with
 the purposes of this title, including (but not limited to)--
 (1) a general visitor use and interpretive program that fully considers the
 prehistoric and historic aspects of the national historical park including
 the `gateway theme' and early Spanish settlement of New Mexico;
 (2) a statement on the number of visitors and types of public uses within the
 park which can be reasonably accommodated in accordance with the protection
 of its resources; and
 (3) a general development plan for the park, including the estimated cost
 thereof.
 SEC. 206. The Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, shall
 undertake a study of the Rowe Ruin, Arrowhead Pueblo, Hobson-Dressler Ruin,
 and Las Ruedas site for the suitability and feasibility of their inclusion
 in the park. The Secretary shall submit the study to the Congress within
 one year after the date of enactment of this title.
 SEC. 207. There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary to carry out this title.
TITLE III--ZUNI-CIBOLA NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK AND JUAN DE ONATE MEMORIAL
 SEC. 301. The first sentence of section 202 of Public Law 100-225 (16
 U.S.C. 460uu-12) is amended by deleting `and Zuni-Cibola National Historical
 Park' and inserting `Zuni-Cibola National Historical Park, and Petroglyph
 National Monument'.
 SEC. 302. The Zuni-Cibola National Historical Park Establishment Act of 1988
 (16 U.S.C. 410pp et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 2(c)--
 (A) by striking `24 months' and inserting `6 years'; and
 (B) by striking `24-month' and inserting `6-year'; and
 (2) in section 3(a) by striking `18 months' and inserting `5 1/2  years'.
 SEC. 303. (a) The tract of land described in subsection (b) shall be treated
 as public land for the purposes of the Act of June 14, 1926 (43 U.S.C. 869
 et seq.; commonly known as the `Recreation and Public Purposes Act').
 (b) The land referred to in paragraph (1) is approximately 5 acres of the
 Sebastian Martin Land Grant near Los Luceros, New Mexico, as generally
 depicted on the map entitled `Onate Memorial Map' and dated July 1989.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.