 
--S.2936--
S.2936
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act to authorize appropriations
for fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Hazardous Materials
 Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990'.
 (b) REFERENCE- Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act
 an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of,
 a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made
 to a section or other provision of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
 (c) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; reference; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Federal regulations governing transportation of hazardous materials.
Sec. 5. Representation and tampering.
Sec. 6. Disclosure.
Sec. 7. Handling of hazardous materials.
Sec. 8. Hazardous materials transportation registration; motor carrier
safety permits.
Sec. 9. Exemptions.
Sec. 10. Definition of certain materials.
Sec. 11. Secretary's powers.
Sec. 12. Penalties.
Sec. 13. Relationship to other laws.
Sec. 14. Funding.
Sec. 15. Transportation of certain highly radioactive materials.
Sec. 16. Inspectors.
Sec. 17. Public sector training and planning.
Sec. 18. Hazmat employee training grant program.
Sec. 19. Railroad tank cars.
Sec. 20. Application of Federal, State, and local law to Federal contractors.
Sec. 21. Railroad tank car study.
Sec. 22. Uniformity of State motor carrier registration and permitting forms
and procedures.
Sec. 23. Financial responsibility.
Sec. 24. Federally leased commercial motor vehicles.
Sec. 25. Improvements to hazardous materials identification systems.
Sec. 26. Continually monitored telephone systems.
Sec. 27. Shipper responsibility report.
Sec. 28. State participation in investigations and surveillance.
Sec. 29. Retention of markings and placards.
Sec. 30. Relationship to Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970.
Sec. 31. Effective date.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Department of Transportation estimates that approximately 4 billion
 tons of regulated hazardous materials are transported each year and that
 approximately 500,000 movements of hazardous materials occur each day,
 (2) accidents involving the release of hazardous materials are a serious
 threat to public health and safety,
 (3) many States and localities have enacted laws and regulations which
 vary from Federal laws and regulations pertaining to the transportation
 of hazardous materials, thereby creating the potential for unreasonable
 hazards in other jurisdictions and confounding shippers and carriers which
 attempt to comply with multiple and conflicting registration, permitting,
 routing, notification, and other regulatory requirements,
 (4) because of the potential risks to life, property, and the environment
 posed by unintentional releases of hazardous materials, consistency in
 laws and regulations governing the transportation of hazardous materials
 is necessary and desirable,
 (5) in order to achieve greater uniformity and to promote the public health,
 welfare, and safety at all levels, Federal standards for regulating the
 transportation of hazardous materials in intrastate, interstate, and foreign
 commerce are necessary and desirable,
 (6) in order to provide reasonable, adequate, and cost-effective protection
 from the risks posed by the transportation of hazardous materials, a
 network of adequately trained State and local emergency response personnel
 is required,
 (7) the Office of Technology Assessment has estimated that approximately
 1,500,000 emergency response personnel need better basic or advanced training
 for responding to the unintentional release of hazardous materials at fixed
 facilities and in transportation, and
 (8) the movement of hazardous materials in commerce is necessary and
 desirable to maintain economic vitality and meet consumer demands, and
 shall be conducted in a safe and efficient manner.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 (a) DEFINITIONS- Section 103 (49 U.S.C. App. 1802) is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this title, the following definitions apply:
 `(1) ADMINISTRATOR- The term `Administrator' means the Administrator of
 the Environmental Protection Agency.
 `(2) COMMERCE- The term `commerce' means trade, traffic, commerce, or
 transportation within the jurisdiction of the United States (A) between a
 place in a State and any place outside of such State, or (B) which affects
 trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation described in subparagraph (A).
 `(3) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of the Federal
 Emergency Management Agency.
 `(4) HAZARDOUS MATERIAL- The term `hazardous material' means a substance
 or material designated by the Secretary under section 104.
 `(5) HAZMAT EMPLOYEE- The term `hazmat employee' means an individual who
 is employed by a hazmat employer and who in the course of the individual's
 employment directly affects hazardous materials transportation safety
 as determined by the Secretary by regulation. Such term includes an
 owner-operator of a motor vehicle which transports in commerce hazardous
 materials. Such term includes, at a minimum, an individual who is employed
 by a hazmat employer and who in the course of the individual's employment--
 `(A) loads, unloads, or handles hazardous materials;
 `(B) reconditions or tests containers, drums, and packages represented for
 use in the transportation of hazardous materials;
 `(C) prepares hazardous materials for transportation;
 `(D) is responsible for the safety of the transportation of hazardous
 materials; or
 `(E) operates a vehicle used to transport hazardous materials.
 `(6) HAZMAT EMPLOYER- The term `hazmat employer' means a person--
 `(A)(i) who transports in commerce hazardous materials,
 `(ii) who causes to be transported or shipped in commerce hazardous
 materials, or
 `(iii) who reconditions or tests containers, drums, and packages represented
 for use in the transportation of hazardous materials; and
 `(B) who utilizes 1 or more of its employees in connection with such activity.
Such term includes an owner-operator of a motor vehicle which transports
in commerce hazardous materials. Such term includes any department, agency,
or instrumentality of the United States, a State, a political subdivision of
a State, or an Indian tribe engaged in an activity described in subparagraph
(A)(i), (A)(ii), or (A)(iii).
 `(7) IMMINENT HAZARD- The term `imminent hazard' means the existence of
 a condition which presents a substantial likelihood that death, serious
 illness, severe personal injury, or substantial endangerment to health,
 property, or the environment may occur before the reasonably foreseeable
 completion of an administrative hearing or other formal proceeding initiated
 to abate the risks of those effects.
 `(8) INDIAN TRIBE- The term `Indian tribe' shall have the meaning given
 that term under section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act
 (25 U.S.C. 450b).
 `(9) MOTOR CARRIER- The term `motor carrier' means a motor common carrier,
 motor contract carrier, motor private carrier, and freight forwarder as
 those terms are defined in section 10102 of title 49, United States Code.
 `(10) NATIONAL RESPONSE TEAM- The term `National Response Team' means the
 national response team established pursuant to the National Contingency
 Plan as established under section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental
 Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980.
 `(11) PERSON- The term `person' means an individual, firm, copartnership,
 corporation, company, association, joint-stock association, including
 any trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative thereof, or
 government, Indian tribe, or agency or instrumentality of any government
 or Indian tribe when it offers hazardous materials for transportation in
 commerce or transports hazardous materials in furtherance of a commercial
 enterprise, but such term does not include (A) the United States Postal
 Service, or (B) for the purposes of sections 110 and 111 of this title,
 any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
 `(12) PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYEE- The term `public sector employee' means an
 individual who is employed by a State or a political subdivision thereof
 or an Indian tribe and who in the course of the individual's employment has
 responsibilities relating to responding to accidents and incidents involving
 the transportation of hazardous materials. Such term includes, at a minimum,
 a person employed by a State or political subdivision thereof or an Indian
 tribe as a firefighter or law enforcement officer. Such term also includes
 a person who volunteers to serve as a firefighter for a State or political
 subdivision thereof or an Indian tribe.
 `(13) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Transportation
 or the Secretary's delegate.
 `(14) STATE- The term `State' means a State of the United States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of
 the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam,
 or any other territory or possession of the United States designated by
 the Secretary; except that as used in section 121, relating to uniformity
 of State registration and permitting forms and procedures, such term means
 a State of the United States and the District of Columbia.
 `(15) TRANSPORTS OR TRANSPORTATION- The term `transports' or `transportation'
 means any movement of property by any mode, and any loading, unloading,
 or storage incidental thereto.
 `(16) UNITED STATES- The term `United States' means all of the States.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 111(b) (49 U.S.C. App. 1810(b)) is amended
 by striking the second sentence.
SEC. 4. FEDERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
 Section 105 (49 U.S.C. App. 1804) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 105. REGULATIONS GOVERNING TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
 `(a) GENERAL-
 `(1) ISSUANCE- The Secretary shall issue regulations for the safe
 transportation of hazardous materials in intrastate, interstate, and foreign
 commerce. The regulations issued under this section shall govern any aspect
 of hazardous materials transportation safety which the Secretary deems
 necessary or appropriate.
 `(2) PROCEDURES- Regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be issued in
 accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, including an
 opportunity for informal oral presentation.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY- Regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be applicable
 to any person who transports, ships, causes to be transported or shipped,
 or who manufactures, fabricates, marks, maintains, reconditions, repairs,
 or tests a package or container which is represented, marked, certified, or
 sold by such person as qualified for use in the transportation in commerce
 of hazardous materials.
 `(4) PREEMPTION-
 `(A) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in subsection (b) and unless otherwise
 authorized by Federal law, any law, regulation, order, ruling, provision, or
 other requirement of a State or political subdivision thereof or an Indian
 tribe, which concerns a subject listed in subparagraph (B) and which is
 not substantively the same as any provision of this Act or any regulation
 under such provision which concerns such subject, is preempted.
 `(B) COVERED SUBJECTS- The subjects referred to in subparagraph (A) are
 the following:
 `(i) The designation, description, and classification of hazardous materials.
 `(ii) The packing, repacking, handling, labeling, marking, and placarding
 of hazardous materials.
 `(iii) The preparation, execution, and use of shipping documents pertaining
 to hazardous materials and requirements respecting the number, content,
 and placement of such documents.
 `(iv) The written notification, recording, and reporting of the unintentional
 release in transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(v) The design, manufacturing, fabrication, marking, maintenance,
 reconditioning, repairing, or testing of a package or container which
 is represented, marked, certified, or sold as qualified for use in the
 transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(C) LIMITATION ON FINES AND PENALTIES- If a State or political subdivision
 or Indian tribe assesses any fine or penalty determined by the Secretary to
 be appropriate for a violation concerning a subject listed in subparagraph
 (B), no additional fine or penalty may be assessed for such violation by
 any other authority.
 `(5) STATE LAWS WHICH ARE SUBSTANTIVELY THE SAME AS FEDERAL LAW-
 `(A) CONTINUATION- If the Secretary issues under this section before, on,
 or after the date of the enactment of the Hazardous Materials Transportation
 Uniform Safety Act of 1990, a regulation, rule, or standard concerning any
 subject set forth in paragraph (4), a State, political subdivision of a
 State, or Indian tribe may only establish, maintain, and enforce a law,
 regulation, rule, standard, or order concerning such subject which is
 substantively the same as any provision of this Act or any regulation,
 rule, or order issued under such provision.
 `(B) EFFECTIVE DATE OF FEDERAL PREEMPTION- The Secretary shall determine
 and publish in the Federal Register the effective date of paragraph (1) with
 respect to any regulation, rule, or standard described in subparagraph (A)
 and which is issued after such date of enactment by the Secretary; except
 that such effective date may not be earlier than the 90th day following the
 date of such issuance and may not be later than the last day of the 2-year
 period beginning on the date of such issuance.
 `(b) HIGHWAY ROUTING-
 `(1) STATE AUTHORITY- Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), each State and Indian
 tribe may establish, maintain, and enforce (A) specific highway routes over
 which hazardous materials may and may not be transported by motor vehicles
 in the area which is subject to the jurisdiction of such State or Indian
 tribe, and (B) limitations and requirements with respect to highway routing.
 `(2) ISSUANCE OF FEDERAL STANDARDS- Not later than 18 months after the
 date of the enactment of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform
 Safety Act of 1990, the Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall
 establish by regulation standards for States and Indian tribes to use in
 establishing, maintaining, and enforcing (A) specific highway routes over
 which hazardous materials may and may not be transported by motor vehicles,
 and (B) limitations and requirements with respect to highway routing.
 `(3) CONTENTS OF STANDARDS- The Federal standards established pursuant to
 paragraph (2) shall include the following:
 `(A) ENHANCEMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY- A requirement that highway routing
 designations, limitations, and requirements established, maintained,
 and enforced by a State or Indian tribe shall enhance public safety (i)
 in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the State or Indian tribe, and
 (ii) in areas of the United States not subject to such jurisdiction which
 are directly affected by such designations, limitations, and requirements.
 `(B) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION- Minimum procedural requirements for ensuring
 public participation in the establishment by a State or Indian tribe of
 highway routing designations, limitations, and requirements.
 `(C) CONSULTATION WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTS- A requirement that, in establishing
 highway routing designations, limitations, and requirements, the State
 or Indian tribe shall consult with appropriate State, local, and tribal
 officials having jurisdiction over areas of the United States not subject
 to the jurisdiction of the establishing State or Indian tribe and affected
 industries.
 `(D) THROUGH ROUTING- A requirement that highway routing designations,
 limitations, and requirements established, maintained, and enforced by a State
 or Indian tribe shall assure through highway routing for the transportation
 of hazardous materials between adjacent areas.
 `(E) AGREEMENT OF OTHER STATES; BURDEN ON COMMERCE- A  requirement  that  a
 highway  routing designation, limitation, or requirement which affects the
 transportation of hazardous materials in another State or Indian tribe may
 only be established, maintained, and enforced by a State or Indian tribe if
 (i) it is agreed to by the other State or Indian tribe within a reasonable
 period or has been approved by the Secretary under paragraph (5), and (ii)
 does not unreasonably burden commerce.
 `(F) TIMELINESS- A requirement that the establishment of highway routing
 designations, limitations, and requirements by a State or Indian tribe
 shall be completed in a timely manner.
 `(G) REASONABLE ROUTES TO TERMINALS- A requirement that highway routing
 designations, limitations, and requirements established, maintained,
 and enforced by a State or Indian tribe shall provide reasonable routes
 for motor vehicles transporting hazardous materials to reach terminals,
 facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest, and points for the loading
 and unloading of hazardous materials.
 `(H) STATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR LOCAL COMPLIANCE- A requirement that the
 State shall be responsible (i) for ensuring that political subdivisions of
 the State comply with the Federal standards in establishing, maintaining,
 and enforcing highway routing designations, limitations, and requirements,
 and (ii) for resolving disputes between or among such political subdivisions.
 `(I) FACTORS TO CONSIDER- A requirement that, in establishing, maintaining,
 and enforcing highway routing designations, limitations, and requirements,
 a State or Indian tribe consider--
 `(i) population density,
 `(ii) type of highways,
 `(iii) type and quantities of hazardous materials,
 `(iv) emergency response capabilities,
 `(v) results of consultations with affected persons,
 `(vi) exposure and other risk factors,
 `(vii) terrain considerations,
 `(viii) continuity of routes,
 `(ix) alternative routes,
 `(x) effects on commerce,
 `(xi) delays in transportation, and
 `(xii) such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate
 `(4) PREEMPTION-
 `(A) GENERAL RULE- Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, after
 the last day of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the issuance of
 the regulations establishing the Federal standards pursuant to paragraph
 (2), no State or Indian tribe may establish, maintain, or enforce--
 `(i) any highway route designation over which hazardous materials may or
 may not be transported by motor vehicles, or
 `(ii) any limitation or requirement with respect to such routing,
unless such designation, limitation, or requirement is made in accordance
with the procedural requirements of the Federal standards and complies with
the substantive requirements of the Federal standards.
 `(B) GRANDFATHER CLAUSE- Designations, limitations, and requirements
 established before the date of issuance referred to in subparagraph (A)
 do not have to be in accordance with procedural requirements of the Federal
 standards established pursuant to paragraphs (3)(B), (3)(C), and (3)(F).
 `(C) LIMITATION WITH RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF FACTORS- Nothing in this
 subsection shall be construed as requiring a State or Indian tribe to
 comply with paragraph (3)(I) with respect to designations, limitations, and
 requirements established before the date of the enactment of the Hazardous
 Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990.
 `(D) CONTINUATION OF EFFECTIVENESS DURING DISPUTE RESOLUTION- The Secretary
 may permit a highway route designation or limitation or requirement of a State
 or Indian tribe to continue in effect pending the resolution of a dispute
 under paragraph (5) relating to such designation, limitation, or requirement.
 `(5) DISPUTE RESOLUTION-
 `(A) PETITION OF SECRETARY- If a dispute over a matter relating to through
 highway routing or a dispute relating to agreement with a proposed highway
 route designation, limitation, or requirement arises between or among
 States, political subdivisions of different States, or Indian tribes, 1 or
 more of such States or Indian tribes may petition the Secretary to resolve
 the dispute.
 `(B) PROCEDURE- The Secretary shall, within 18 months of the date of the
 enactment of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of
 1990, issue regulations for resolving disputes under this paragraph.
 `(C) TIME PERIOD- The Secretary shall resolve a dispute under this paragraph
 within 1 year after the date the Secretary receives the petition for
 resolution of such dispute.
 `(D) STANDARD- Resolution of a dispute under this paragraph shall provide
 the greatest level of highway safety without unreasonably burdening commerce
 and shall ensure compliance with the Federal standards established pursuant
 to paragraph (2).
 `(E) LIMITATION ON JUDICIAL REVIEW- After a petition is filed under this
 paragraph to resolve a dispute, no court action may be brought with respect
 to the subject matter of such dispute until a final decision of the Secretary
 is issued under this paragraph or the last day of the 1-year period beginning
 on the day the Secretary receives such petition, whichever occurs first.
 `(F) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Any State or Indian tribe which is adversely affected
 by a decision of the Secretary under this paragraph may, at any time before
 the 90th day following the date such decision becomes final, bring an action
 for judicial review in an appropriate district court of the United States.
 `(6) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this subsection
 and the regulations issued under this subsection shall be construed as
 superseding or otherwise affecting application of section 127 of title 23,
 United States Code, relating to vehicle weight limitations, or section 411
 or 416 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982, relating to
 vehicle length and vehicle width limitations, respectively.
 `(7) LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY-
 `(A) PLACARDED MOTOR VEHICLES- Subject to subparagraph (B), this subsection
 only applies to a motor vehicle if the vehicle is transporting in commerce
 a hazardous material for which placarding of the vehicle is required in
 accordance with the regulations issued under this title.
 `(B) AUTHORITY TO EXTEND APPLICABILITY- The Secretary may, by regulation,
 extend application of this subsection or any Federal standard established
 pursuant to paragraph (2)--
 `(i) to any use of a vehicle described in subparagraph (A) to provide
 transportation in commerce of any hazardous material; and
 `(ii) to any motor vehicle used to transport in commerce hazardous materials.
 `(8) EXISTING REGULATIONS RELATING TO RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS- Nothing in this
 subsection shall be construed to require the Secretary to amend, modify,
 or reissue regulations issued by the Department of Transportation before
 the date of the enactment of this paragraph and in effect on such date with
 respect to highway route designations over which radioactive materials may
 and may not be transported by motor vehicles and limitations and requirements
 with respect to such routing.
 `(9) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY- The Secretary may not assign any
 specific weight to be given by the States and Indian tribes in considering
 factors pursuant to paragraph (3)(I).
 `(c) LIST OF ROUTE DESIGNATIONS- The Secretary, in coordination with the
 States, shall periodically update and publish a list of currently effective
 hazardous materials highway route designations.
 `(d) INTERNATIONAL UNIFORMITY-
 `(1) DOT PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL FORUMS- Subject to guidance and
 direction from the Secretary of State, the Secretary shall participate in
 international forums that establish or recommend mandatory standards and
 requirements for the transportation of hazardous materials in international
 commerce.
 `(2) CONSULTATION- The Secretary may consult with interested agencies to
 assure that, to the extent practicable, regulations issued by the Secretary
 pursuant to this section shall be consistent with standards adopted
 by international bodies applicable to the transportation of hazardous
 materials. Nothing in this subsection shall require the Secretary to issue
 a standard identical to a standard adopted by an international body, if
 the Secretary determines the standard to be unnecessary or unsafe, nor
 shall the Secretary be prohibited from establishing safety requirements
 that are more stringent than those included in a standard adopted by an
 international body, if the Secretary determines that such requirements are
 necessary in the public interest.'.
SEC. 5. REPRESENTATION AND TAMPERING.
 Section 105 (49 U.S.C. App. 1804), as amended by section 4, is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(e) UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATION- No person shall, by marking or otherwise,
 represent that--
 `(1) a container or package for the transportation of hazardous materials
 is safe, certified, or in compliance with the requirements of this title
 unless it meets the requirements of all applicable regulations issued under
 this title; or
 `(2) a hazardous material is present in a package, container, motor vehicle,
 rail freight car, aircraft, or vessel, if the hazardous material is not
 present.
 `(f) UNLAWFUL TAMPERING- No person shall unlawfully alter, remove, deface,
 destroy, or otherwise tamper with--
 `(1) any marking, label, placard, or description on a document required by
 this title or a regulation issued under this title; or
 `(2) any package, container, motor vehicle, rail freight car, aircraft,
 or vessel used for the transportation of hazardous materials.
SEC. 6. DISCLOSURE.
 Section 105 (49 U.S.C. App. 1804), as amended by section 5, is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) DISCLOSURE-
 `(1) MAINTENANCE OF SHIPPING PAPER- Each person who offers for transportation
 in commerce a hazardous material that is subject to the shipping paper
 requirements of the Secretary shall provide the carrier who is providing
 such transportation any shipping paper that makes the disclosure established
 by the Secretary under paragraph (2) for the carrier to maintain on the
 vehicle to be used to provide such transportation. If the person offering
 such material for transportation is also a private motor carrier, such
 person shall maintain such shipping paper on the vehicle.
 `(2) CONSIDERATIONS AND CONTENTS- In carrying out paragraph (1), the
 Secretary shall consider and may require the following:
 `(A) a description of the hazardous material, including the proper shipping
 name of the material,
 `(B) the hazard class of the hazardous material,
 `(C) the identification number (UN/NA) of the material,
 `(D) immediate first action emergency response information or a means
 for appropriate reference to such information which must be immediately
 available, and
 `(E) a telephone number for the purpose of obtaining more specific handling
 and mitigation information concerning the hazardous material at any time
 during its transportation.
 `(3) SPECIFICATION OF LOCATION- The shipping paper referred to in paragraph
 (1) shall be kept in a location, to be specified by the Secretary, in the
 motor vehicle, train, vessel, aircraft, or facility until the hazardous
 material is no longer in transportation or the documents have been made
 available to a representative of a Federal, State, or local government
 agency responding to an accident or incident involving the motor vehicle,
 train, vessel, aircraft, or facility.
 `(4) DISCLOSURE TO EMERGENCY RESPONSE AUTHORITIES- Any person who transports a
 hazardous material in commerce shall, in the event of an incident involving
 such material, immediately disclose to appropriate emergency response
 authorities, upon their request, information on the hazardous material
 being transported.'.
SEC. 7. HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
 Section 106 (49 U.S.C. App. 1805) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c), and any reference thereto,
 as subsections (e) and (f), respectively;
 (2) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by striking `(b)' and inserting
 `(c)'; and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) TRAINING CRITERIA FOR SAFE HANDLING AND TRANSPORTATION-
 `(1) FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS- Within 18 months after the date of the enactment
 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990, the
 Secretary shall issue, by regulation, requirements for training to be given
 by all hazmat employers to their hazmat employees regarding the safe loading,
 unloading, handling, storing, and transporting of hazardous materials and
 emergency preparedness for responding to accidents or incidents involving
 the transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(2) DIFFERENT TRAINING REQUIREMENTS- The regulations issued under paragraph
 (1) may provide for different training for different classes or categories
 of hazardous materials and hazmat employees.
 `(3) COORDINATION OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE TRAINING REGULATIONS- In consultation
 with the Administrator and the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary shall take
 such actions as may be necessary to ensure that the training requirements
 established under this subsection do not conflict with the requirements of
 the regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
 of the Department of Labor relating to hazardous waste operations and
 emergency response contained in part 1910 of title 29 of the Code of
 Federal Regulations (and amendments thereto) and the regulations issued
 by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to worker protection
 standards for hazardous waste operations contained in part 311 of title
 40 of such Code (and amendments thereto). For purposes of section 4(b)(1)
 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 653(b)(1)),
 no action taken by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be deemed
 to be an exercise of statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards
 or regulations affecting occupational safety or health.
 `(4) COMMENCEMENT OF TRAINING- Within 6 months after the date on which the
 Secretary issues regulations under this subsection, each hazmat employer
 shall have commenced training of its hazmat employees in accordance with
 the requirements established by such regulations.
 `(5) COMPLETION OF TRAINING- Regulations issued under this subsection shall
 establish the date by which training of hazmat employees shall be completed in
 order to comply with requirements established by such regulations. Such date
 shall be within a reasonable period of time after (A) 6 months following the
 date of the issuance of such regulations, or (B) in the case of an individual
 employed as a hazmat employee after such 6-month period, the date on which
 the individual is to begin carrying out a duty of a hazmat employee.
 `(6) CERTIFICATION- After completion of training of its hazmat employees
 in accordance with the requirements established under this subsection, each
 hazmat employer shall certify, with such appropriate documentation as may be
 required by regulation by the Secretary, that the employer's hazmat employees
 have received training and have been tested on appropriate transportation
 areas of responsibility, including one or more of the following areas:
 `(A) Recognition and understanding of the Department of Transportation
 hazardous materials classification system.
 `(B) Use and limitations of the Department of Transportation hazardous
 materials placarding, labeling, and marking systems.
 `(C) General handling procedures, loading and unloading techniques,
 and strategies to reduce the probability of release or damage during or
 incidental to transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(D) Health, safety, and risk factors associated with hazardous materials
 and their transportation.
 `(E) Appropriate emergency response and communication procedures for dealing
 with accidents and incidents involving hazardous materials transportation.
 `(F) Use of the Department of Transportation Emergency Response Guidebook
 and recognition of its limitations or use of equivalent documents and
 recognition of the limitations of such documents.
 `(G) Applicable hazardous materials transportation regulations.
 `(H) Personal protection techniques.
 `(I) Preparation of shipping documents for transportation of hazardous
 materials.
 `(7) APPLICABILITY OF INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS- Chapter 35
 of title 44, United States Code (relating to coordination of Federal
 information policy) shall not apply to activities of the Secretary under
 this subsection.'.
SEC. 8. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGISTRATION; MOTOR CARRIER
SAFETY PERMITS.
 Section 106 (49 U.S.C. App. 1805), as amended by section 7, is amended by
 inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsections:
 `(c) REGISTRATION-
 `(1) MANDATORY FILINGS- Each person who carries out one or more of the
 following activities shall file with the Secretary a registration statement
 in accordance with the provisions of this subsection:
 `(A) Transporting or causing to be transported or shipped in commerce
 highway-route controlled quantities of radioactive materials, more than 25
 kilograms of class A or class B explosives in a motor vehicle, rail car, or
 transport container, or more than 1 liter per package of a hazardous material
 which has been designated by the Secretary as extremely toxic by inhalation.
 `(B) Transporting or causing to be transported or shipped in commerce a
 hazardous material in a bulk package, container, or tank as defined by the
 Secretary if the package, container, or tank has a capacity of 3,500 or
 more gallons or more than 468 cubic feet.
 `(C) Transporting or causing to be transported or shipped in commerce a
 shipment of 5,000 pounds or more of a class of a hazardous material for
 which placarding of a vehicle, rail car, or freight container is required
 in accordance with the regulations issued under this title.
 `(2) COOPERATION OF EPA- The Administrator shall assist the Secretary in
 carrying out this subsection by furnishing the Secretary with such information
 as the Secretary may request in order to carry out the objectives of this
 section.
 `(3) DISCRETIONARY FILINGS- The Secretary may require each person who carries
 out one or more of the following activities to file a registration statement
 with the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of this subsection:
 `(A) Transporting or causing to be transported or shipped in commerce
 hazardous materials and who is not required to file a registration statement
 under paragraph (1).
 `(B) Manufacturing, fabricating, marking, maintaining, reconditioning,
 repairing, or testing packages or containers which are represented, marked,
 certified, or sold by such person for use in the transportation in commerce
 of hazardous materials designated by the Secretary.
 `(4) REQUIREMENT- No person required to file a registration statement by or
 under this subsection may transport or cause to be transported or shipped
 hazardous materials, or manufacture, fabricate, mark, maintain, recondition,
 repair, or test packages or containers for use in the transportation of
 hazardous materials, unless such person has on file a registration statement
 in accordance with this subsection.
 `(5) FILING DEADLINES-
 `(A) INITIAL FILINGS- Each person who is required to file a registration
 statement by or under this subsection shall file an initial registration
 statement by March 31, 1992. The Secretary may extend such date to September
 30, 1992, with respect to the requirements of paragraph (1).
 `(B) RENEWALS- Subject to the provisions of this subsection, each person
 who is required to file a registration statement by or under this section
 shall renew such registration statement periodically in accordance with
 regulations issued by the Secretary, but no less frequently than every 5
 years and no more frequently than annually.
 `(6) AMENDMENTS- The Secretary shall by regulation determine when and under
 what circumstances a registration statement filed under this subsection
 with the Secretary must be amended and the procedures to be followed in
 amending such statement.
 `(7) CONTENTS- A registration statement under this subsection shall be
 in such form and contain such information as the Secretary may require by
 regulation. The Secretary may utilize existing forms of the Department of
 Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency in carrying out this
 subsection. At a minimum, such statement shall include--
 `(A) the registrant's name and principal place of business;
 `(B) a description of each activity the registrant carries out for which
 filing of a registration statement is required by or under this section; and
 `(C) the State or States in which such person carries out each such activity.
 `(8) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF FILINGS- A person who carries out more than
 one activity for which filing of a registration statement is required by
 or under this subsection only needs to file one registration statement in
 order to comply with this subsection.
 `(9) STREAMLINED PROCESS- The Secretary may take such action as may be
 necessary to streamline and simplify the registration process under this
 subsection and to minimize with respect to a person who is required to file
 a registration statement under this subsection the number of applications,
 documents, and other information which such person is required to file
 with the Department of Transportation under this title and any other laws
 of the United States.
 `(10) DISCLOSURE- The Secretary shall make a registration statement filed
 under this subsection available for inspection by any person, for a fee
 to be established by the Secretary; except that nothing in this sentence
 shall be considered to require the release of any information described
 in section 552(f) of title 5, United States Code, or which is otherwise
 protected by law from disclosure to the public.
 `(11) FEES- The Secretary may establish, assess, and collect such fees from
 persons required to file registration statements by or under this subsection
 as may be necessary to cover the costs of the Department of Transportation
 in processing such registration statements.
 `(12) PROOF OF REGISTRATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES- The Secretary may issue
 regulations requiring a person required to file a registration statement by
 or under this subsection to maintain proof of the filing of such statement
 and the payment of any fees assessed under this subsection and section 117(h).
 `(13) APPLICABILITY OF INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS- Chapter 35 of
 title 44, United States Code (relating to coordination of Federal information
 policy) shall not apply to activities of the Secretary under this subsection.
 `(14) NONAPPLICABILITY TO EMPLOYEES- Notwithstanding any other provisions
 of this subsection, an employee of a hazmat employer is not required to
 file a registration statement by or under this section.
 `(15) EXEMPTION OF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND EMPLOYEES- Agencies of the Federal
 Government, agencies of States, and agencies of political subdivisions
 of States, and employees of such agencies with respect to their official
 duties do not have to file registration statements under this subsection.
 `(d) MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PERMITS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- Except as provided in this subsection, a motor carrier
 may transport or cause to be transported by motor vehicle in commerce a
 hazardous material only if the motor carrier holds a safety permit issued by
 the Secretary under this section authorizing the transportation and keeps
 a copy of such permit, or other proof establishing the existence of such
 permit, in the motor vehicle used to provide such transportation.
 `(2) ISSUANCE- Except as provided in this subsection, the Secretary shall
 issue a safety permit to a motor carrier authorizing that carrier to transport
 or cause to be transported by motor vehicle in commerce a hazardous material
 if the Secretary finds that the carrier is fit, willing, and able--
 `(A) to provide the transportation to be authorized by the permit;
 `(B) to comply with this title and the regulations issued by the Secretary
 to carry out this title; and
 `(C) to comply with any applicable Federal motor carrier safety laws and
 regulations and any applicable Federal minimum financial responsibility
 laws and regulations.
 `(3) SHIPPER'S RESPONSIBILITY- Each person who offers a hazardous material
 for motor vehicle transportation in commerce may offer that material to
 a motor carrier only if the carrier has a safety permit issued under this
 subsection authorizing such transportation.
 `(4) AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION- A safety permit issued to a
 motor carrier under this subsection may, after notice and an opportunity for
 hearing, be amended, suspended, or revoked by the Secretary in accordance
 with procedures established under paragraph (6) whenever the Secretary
 determines that such carrier has failed to comply with a requirement of
 this title, any regulation issued under this title, any applicable Federal
 motor carrier safety law or regulation, or any applicable Federal minimum
 financial responsibility law or regulation. If the Secretary determines that
 an imminent hazard exists, the Secretary may amend, suspend, or revoke the
 safety permit before scheduling a hearing thereon.
 `(5) COVERED TRANSPORTATION- The Secretary shall establish by regulation the
 hazardous materials and quantities thereof to which this subsection applies;
 except that this section shall apply, at a minimum, to all transportation
 by a motor carrier of a class A or B explosive, a liquefied natural gas, a
 hazardous material which has been designated by the Secretary as extremely
 toxic by inhalation, or a highway route controlled quantity of radioactive
 materials as defined by the Secretary.
 `(6) PROCEDURES- The Secretary shall establish by regulation--
 `(A) application procedures, including form, content, and fees necessary
 to recover the full costs of administering this subsection;
 `(B) standards for determining the duration, terms, conditions, or limitations
 of a safety permit;
 `(C) procedures for the amendment, suspension, or revocation of a safety
 permit issued under this section; and
 `(D) any other procedures the Secretary deems appropriate to implement
 this subsection.
 `(7) APPLICATION- A motor carrier shall file an application with the Secretary
 for a safety permit to provide transportation under this subsection. The
 Secretary may approve any part of the application or deny the application. The
 application shall--
 `(A) be under oath; and
 `(B) contain such information as the Secretary may require by regulation.
 `(8) CONDITIONS- A motor carrier may provide transportation under a safety
 permit issued under this subsection only if the carrier complies with such
 conditions as the Secretary finds are required to protect public safety.'.
 (b) SAFETY PERMITS- Section 106(d) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation
 Act, relating to motor carrier safety permits, shall take effect 2 years
 after the date of the enactment of this Act; except that the Secretary shall
 issue regulations necessary to carry out such section not later than 1 year
 after such date of enactment.
 (c) REPEAL OF EXISTING PROGRAM- Subsections (e) and (f) of section 106 of
 the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1805), as redesignated
 by section 7 of this Act, are repealed effective March 31, 1992.
SEC. 9. EXEMPTIONS.
 Section 107(a) (49 U.S.C. App. 1806(a)) is amended by striking `or renewal'
 in the fourth sentence.
SEC. 10. DEFINITION OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
 The second sentence of section 108(b) (49 U.S.C. App. 1807(b)) is amended to
 read as follows: `The term does not include any material which the Secretary
 determines is of such low order of radioactivity that when transported does
 not pose a significant hazard to health or safety.'.
SEC. 11. SECRETARY'S POWERS.
 Section 109(d)(1)(C) (49 U.S.C. App. 1808(d)(1)(C)) is amended by striking
 `recommend' and inserting `take'.
SEC. 12. PENALTIES.
 (a) CIVIL PENALTIES- Section 110(a) (49 App. U.S.C. 1809(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by striking `(except an employee who acts without knowledge)' in the
 first sentence;
 (B) by striking `title or of a' in the first sentence and inserting `title,
 an order, or';
 (C) by inserting `order or' after `violation of any' in each of the second
 and third sentences; and
 (D) by striking `$10,000' in each of the second and third sentences and
 inserting `$25,000 and not less than $250'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(3) ACTING KNOWINGLY- For purposes of this section, a person shall be
 considered to have acted knowingly if--
 `(A) such person has actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to the
 violation, or
 `(B) a reasonable person acting in the circumstances and exercising due
 care would have such knowledge.'.
 (b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES- Subsection (b) of section 110 (49 App. U.S.C. 1809)
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) CRIMINAL- A person who knowingly violates section 105(f) of this title
 or willfully violates a provision of this title or an order or regulation
 issued under this title shall be fined under title 18, United States Code,
 or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.'.
SEC. 13. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
 Section 112 (49 U.S.C. App. 1811) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 112. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (d) and unless otherwise
 authorized by Federal law, any requirement of a State or political subdivision
 thereof or Indian tribe is preempted if--
 `(1) compliance with both the State or political subdivision or Indian
 tribe requirement and any requirement of this title or of a regulation
 issued under this title is not possible,
 `(2) the State or political subdivision or Indian tribe requirement as
 applied or enforced creates an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution
 of this title or the regulations issued under this title, or
 `(3) it is preempted under section 105(a)(4) or section 105(b).
 `(b) FEES- A State or political subdivision thereof or Indian tribe may not
 levy any fee in connection with the transportation of hazardous materials
 that is not equitable and not used for purposes related to the transportation
 of hazardous materials, including enforcement and the planning, development,
 and maintenance of a capability for emergency response.
 `(c) DETERMINATION OF PREEMPTION-
 `(1) ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATION- Any person, including a State or political
 subdivision thereof or Indian tribe, directly affected by any requirement of a
 State or political subdivision or Indian tribe, may apply to the Secretary, in
 accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, for a determination
 of whether that requirement is preempted by section 105(a)(4) or 105(b)
 or subsection (a). The Secretary shall publish notice of the application
 in the Federal Register. Once the Secretary has published such notice,
 no applicant for such determination by the Secretary may seek relief with
 respect to the same or substantially the same issue in any court until
 the Secretary has taken final action on the application or until 180 days
 after filing of the application, whichever occurs first. The Secretary, in
 consultation with States, political subdivisions, and Indian tribes, shall
 issue regulations which set forth procedures for carrying out this paragraph.
 `(2) JUDICIAL DETERMINATION- Nothing in subsection (a) prohibits a State or
 political subdivision thereof or Indian tribe, or any other person directly
 affected by any requirement of a State or political subdivision thereof or
 Indian tribe, from seeking a determination of preemption in any court of
 competent jurisdiction in lieu of applying to the Secretary under paragraph
 (1).
 `(d) WAIVER OF PREEMPTION- Any State or political subdivision or Indian
 tribe may apply to the Secretary for a waiver of preemption with respect
 to any requirement that the State or political subdivision or Indian tribe
 acknowledges to be preempted by section 105(a)(4) or 105(b) or subsection
 (a). The Secretary, in accordance with procedures prescribed by regulation,
 may waive preemption with respect to such requirement upon a determination
 that such requirement--
 `(1) affords an equal or greater level of protection to the public than is
 afforded by the requirements of this title or regulations issued under this
 title, and
 `(2) does not unreasonably burden commerce.
 `(e) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A party to a proceeding under subsection (c) or (d)
 may seek review by the appropriate district court of the United States of
 a decision of the Secretary under such proceeding only by filing a petition
 with such court within 60 days after such decision becomes final.
 `(f) OTHER FEDERAL LAWS- This title shall not apply to pipelines which are
 subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968
 (49 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.), to pipelines which are subject to regulation under
 the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.),
 or to any matter which is subject to the Federal postal laws or regulations
 under this title or under title 18 or title 39 of the United States Code.'.
SEC. 14. FUNDING.
 Section 115 (49 U.S.C. App. 1812) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 115. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- There is authorized to be appropriated for carrying out
 this title (other than sections 117 and 121) not to exceed $13,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1991, $16,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and $18,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993.
 `(b) CREDITS- The Secretary may credit to any appropriation to carry out this
 title funds received from States, Indian tribes, or other public authorities
 and private entities for expenses incurred by the Secretary in providing
 training to such States, public authorities, and private entities.'.
SEC. 15. TRANSPORTATION OF CERTAIN HIGHLY RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS.
 Section 116 (49 U.S.C. App. 1813) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 116. TRANSPORTATION OF CERTAIN HIGHLY RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS.
 `(a) RAILROAD TRANSPORTATION STUDY- The Secretary, in consultation with the
 Department of Energy, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, potentially affected
 States and Indian tribes, representatives of the railroad transportation
 industry and shippers of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear
 fuel, shall undertake a study comparing the safety of using trains operated
 exclusively for transporting high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear
 fuel (hereinafter in this section referred to as `dedicated trains') with the
 safety of using other methods of rail transportation for such purposes. The
 Secretary shall report the results of the study to Congress not later than
 one year after the date of enactment of this section.
 `(b) SAFE RAIL TRANSPORT OF CERTAIN RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS- Within 24 months
 after the date of enactment of this section, taking into consideration the
 findings of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary
 shall amend existing regulations as the Secretary deems appropriate to
 provide for the safe transportation by rail of high-level radioactive
 waste and spent nuclear fuel by various methods of rail transportation,
 including by dedicated train.
 `(c) MODE AND ROUTE STUDY- The Secretary shall, within 12 months after
 the date of enactment of this section, undertake a study to determine
 which factors, if any, should be taken into consideration by shippers and
 carriers in order to select routes and modes which, in combination, would
 enhance overall public safety related to the transportation of high-level
 radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. Such study shall include notice
 and opportunity for public comment, and shall include assessing the degree to
 which various factors, including population densities, types and conditions of
 modal infrastructures (such as highways, railbeds, and waterways), quantities
 of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, emergency response
 capabilities, exposure and other risk factors, terrain considerations,
 continuity of routes, available alternative routes, environmental impact
 factors, affect the overall public safety of such shipments.
 `(d) INSPECTIONS OF VEHICLES TRANSPORTING HIGHWAY ROUTE CONTROLLED QUANTITY
 RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- Not later than one year after the date of the enactment
 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990, the
 Secretary shall require by regulation that, before each use of a motor
 vehicle to transport in commerce any highway route controlled quantity
 radioactive material, such vehicle shall be inspected and certified to be
 in compliance with this title and applicable Federal motor carrier safety
 laws and regulations.
 `(2) USE OF FEDERAL AND STATE INSPECTORS- The Secretary may require that
 inspections under this subsection be carried out by duly authorized inspectors
 of the United States or in accordance with appropriate State procedures.
 `(3) SELF-CERTIFICATION- The Secretary may permit a person who transports or
 causes to be transported or shipped any highway route controlled quantity
 radioactive material to inspect the motor vehicle to be used to provide
 such transportation and to certify that the motor vehicle is in compliance
 with this title. The inspector qualification requirements for individuals
 performing inspections of motor vehicles issued by the Secretary shall
 apply to individuals conducting inspections under this paragraph.'.
SEC. 16. INSPECTORS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Transportation, in fiscal year 1991, shall
 employ and maintain thereafter an additional 30 hazardous materials safety
 inspectors above the number of safety inspectors authorized for fiscal
 year 1990, in the aggregate, for the Federal Railroad Administration,
 the Federal Highway Administration, and the Research and Special Programs
 Administration. The Secretary shall take such action as may be necessary
 to assure that the activities of 10 such additional inspectors focus on
 promoting safety in the transportation of radioactive materials, as defined
 by the Secretary. Such activities shall include--
 (1) the inspection at the point of origin of shipments of high-level
 radioactive waste or nuclear spent fuel, as those terms are defined in
 section 116 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as added by
 section 15 of this Act; and
 (2) the inspection, to the maximum extent practicable, of shipments of
 radioactive materials that are not high-level radioactive waste or nuclear
 spent fuel.
 (b) COOPERATION- In carrying out their duties, the 10 additional inspectors
 authorized by this section to focus on promoting safety in the transportation
 of radioactive materials shall, to the maximum extent possible, cooperate
 with safety inspectors of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and appropriate
 State and local government officials.
 (c) ALLOCATION OF INSPECTORS OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS- Of the 10 additional
 inspectors authorized by subsection (a) to focus on promoting safety in
 the transportation of radioactive materials--
 (1) not less than 1 shall be allocated to the Research and Special Programs
 Administration;
 (2) not less than 3 shall be allocated to the Federal Railroad Administration;
 (3) not less than 3 shall be allocated to the Federal Highway Administration;
 and
 (4) the remainder shall be allocated, at the discretion of the Secretary,
 among the agencies referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3).
 (d) ALLOCATION OF OTHER SAFETY INSPECTORS- The 20 additional inspectors
 authorized by subsection (a) not referred to in subsection (c) shall be
 allocated, at the discretion of the Secretary, among the agencies referred
 to in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3).
 (e) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 (1) HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE- The term `high-level radioactive waste'
 has the meaning given such term in section 2(12) of the Nuclear Waste Policy
 Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101(12)).
 (2) SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL- The term `spent nuclear fuel' has the meaning
 given such term in section 2(23) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982
 (42 U.S.C. 10101(23)).
SEC. 17. PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING AND PLANNING.
 The Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1801-1813) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new section:
`SEC. 117A. PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING AND PLANNING.
 `(a) PLANNING GRANT PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall make grants to States--
 `(A) for developing, improving, and implementing emergency plans under
 the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986, including
 determination of flow patterns of hazardous materials within a State and
 between a State and another State; and
 `(B) for determining the need for regional hazardous materials emergency
 response teams.
 `(2) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- The Secretary may not make a grant to a State
 under this subsection in a fiscal year unless such State certifies that the
 aggregate expenditure of funds of the State, exclusive of Federal funds, for
 developing, improving, and implementing emergency plans under the Emergency
 Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 will be maintained at a
 level which does not fall below the average level of such expenditure for
 its last 2 fiscal years.
 `(3) FUNDING OF PLANNING BY LOCAL EMERGENCY PLANNING COMMITTEES- The
 Secretary may not make a grant to a State under this subsection in a fiscal
 year unless such State agrees to make available not less than 75 percent of
 the funds granted to the State under this subsection in the fiscal year to
 local emergency planning committees established pursuant to section 301(c)
 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 by the
 State emergency response commission. Such funds shall be made available to
 the local committees for developing emergency plans under such Act.
 `(b) TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall make grants to States and Indian tribes
 for training public sector employees to respond to accidents and incidents
 involving hazardous materials.
 `(2) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- The Secretary may not make a grant to a State
 or Indian tribe under this subsection in a fiscal year unless the State
 or Indian tribe certifies that the aggregate expenditure of funds of the
 State or Indian tribe, exclusive of Federal funds, for training public sector
 employees to respond to accidents and incidents involving hazardous materials
 will be maintained at a level which does not fall below the average level
 of such expenditure for its last 2 fiscal years.
 `(3) FUNDING OF TRAINING BY POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS- The Secretary may not
 make a grant to a State under this subsection in a fiscal year unless such
 State agrees to make available at least 75 percent of the funds granted to the
 State under this subsection in the fiscal year for the purposes of training
 public sector employees employed or used by the political subdivisions.
 `(4) USE OF TRAINING COURSES- The Secretary may only make a grant to a State
 or Indian tribe under this subsection in a fiscal year if the State or Indian
 tribe enters into an agreement with the Secretary to use in such fiscal year--
 `(A) a course or courses developed or identified under subsection (g); or
 `(B) other courses which the Secretary determines are consistent with the
 objectives of this section;
for training public sector employees to respond to accidents and incidents
involving hazardous materials.
 `(5) USE OF TRAINING FUNDS- Funds granted to a State or Indian tribe for
 training public sector employees under this subsection may be used to
 pay tuition costs of such employees for such training, travel expenses of
 such employees to and from the training facility, room and board of such
 employees while they are at the training facility, and travel expenses of
 persons who are to provide such training.
 `(6) TRAINING BY OTHERS- Funds granted to a State or Indian tribe for
 training public sector employees under this subsection--
 `(A) may be used by the State or a political subdivision thereof or the
 Indian tribe to provide such training; or
 `(B) may be used to enter into an agreement, approved by the Secretary,
 to authorize a person (including a department, agency, or instrumentality
 of a State or political subdivision thereof or an Indian tribe) to provide
 such training--
 `(i) if the agreement allows the Secretary and the State or Indian tribe
 to conduct random examinations, inspections, and audits of such training
 without prior notification; and
 `(ii) if the State or Indian tribe conducts at least annually 1 on-site
 observation of such training.
 `(7) ALLOCATION OF TRAINING FUNDS- The Secretary shall allocate funds made
 available for grants under this subsection for a fiscal year among States
 and Indian tribes which are eligible to receive such grants in such fiscal
 year based upon the needs of such States and Indian tribes for emergency
 response training. In determining such needs, the Secretary shall consider
 the number of hazardous materials facilities in the State or on lands under
 the jurisdiction of the Indian tribe, the types and amounts of hazardous
 materials transported in the State or on such lands, whether or not the
 State or Indian tribe assesses and collects fees on the transportation of
 hazardous materials, whether or not such fees are used solely to carry out
 purposes related to the transportation of hazardous materials, and such
 other factors as the Secretary determines are appropriate to carry out the
 objectives of this subsection.
 `(c) ADOPTION OF FEDERAL STANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY PLANNING
 REQUIREMENTS- The Secretary may only make a grant to a State under
 this section in a fiscal year if the State certifies that the State is
 complying with sections 301 and 303 of the Emergency Planning and Community
 Right-To-Know Act of 1986, including compliance with such sections with
 respect to accidents and incidents involving the transportation of hazardous
 materials.
 `(d) FEDERAL SHARE- By a grant under this section, the Secretary shall
 reimburse any State or Indian tribe an amount not to exceed 80 percent
 of the cost incurred by the State or Indian tribe in the fiscal year for
 carrying out the activities for which the grant is made. The funds of the
 State or Indian tribe which are required to be expended under subsections
 (a)(2) and (b)(2) shall not be considered to be part of the non-Federal share.
 `(e) APPLICATIONS- A State or Indian tribe interested in receiving a grant
 under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary for such
 grant. Such applications shall be submitted at such times and contain such
 information as the Secretary may require by regulation to carry out the
 objectives of this subsection.
 `(f) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY- For the purpose of minimizing administrative
 costs and for coordinating Federal grant programs for emergency response
 training and planning, the Secretary may delegate to the Director, Chairman
 of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Administrator, Secretary of Labor,
 Secretary of Energy, and Director of the National Institute of Environmental
 Health Sciences of the Department of Health and Human Services one or more
 of the following functions:
 `(1) Authority to receive applications for grants under this section.
 `(2) Authority to review applications for technical compliance with this
 section.
 `(3) Authority to review applications for the purpose of making recommendation
 on approval or disapproval of such applications.
 `(4) Any other ministerial function associated with the grant programs
 under this section.
 `(g) TRAINING CURRICULUM-
 `(1) CURRICULUM COMMITTEE- Not later than 24 months after the date of
 the enactment of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety
 Act of 1990, the Secretary, in coordination with the Director, Chairman
 of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Administrator, Secretary of Labor,
 Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Director
 of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and using the
 existing coordinating mechanisms of the National Response Team and, for
 radioactive materials, the Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating
 Committee, shall develop and update periodically a curriculum which consists
 of a list of courses necessary to train public sector emergency response
 and preparedness teams.
 `(2) MANDATORY CURRICULUM RECOMMENDATIONS- The curriculum to be developed
 under this subsection shall include--
 `(A) a recommended course of study--
 `(i) for training public sector employees to respond to accidents and
 incidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials,
 `(ii) for planning such responses;
 `(B) recommended basic courses and minimum numbers of hours of instruction
 necessary for public sector employees to be able--
 `(i) to respond safely and efficiently to accidents and incidents involving
 the transportation of hazardous materials, and
 `(ii) to plan for such responses; and
 `(C) appropriate emergency response training and planning programs for
 public sector employees developed under other Federal grant programs,
 including those developed with grants made under section 126 of the Superfund
 Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986.
 `(3) OPTIONAL CURRICULUM RECOMMENDATIONS- The curriculum to be developed
 under this subsection may include recommendations concerning materials
 appropriate for use in the recommended courses described in paragraph (2)(B).
 `(4) COMPLIANCE WITH OSHA AND EPA REGULATIONS AND NFPA STANDARDS- The
 recommended courses described in paragraph (2)(B) shall provide such training
 to public sector employees as may be necessary to comply--
 `(A) with the regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health
 Administration of the Department of Labor relating to hazardous waste
 operations and emergency response contained in part 1910 of title 29 of
 the Code of Federal Regulations, and any amendments thereto;
 `(B) with the regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency
 relating to worker protection standards for hazardous waste operations
 contained in part 311 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
 and any amendments thereto; and
 `(C) with standards issued by the National Fire Protection Association,
 relating to emergency response training, including standards 471 and 472.
 `(5) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT- In developing the curriculum under this
 subsection, the Secretary shall consult the regional response teams
 established pursuant to the National Contingency Plan established under
 section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
 Liability Act of 1980, representatives of commissions established pursuant
 to section 301 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act
 of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11001), persons (including governmental entities) who
 provide training for responding to accidents and incidents involving the
 transportation of hazardous materials, and representatives of persons who
 respond to such accidents and incidents.
 `(6) DISSEMINATION- The Director, in conjunction with the National Response
 Team, shall disseminate the curriculum developed under this section and any
 amendments thereto to the regional response teams established pursuant to the
 National Contingency Plan established under section 105 of the Comprehensive
 Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 and to
 all committees and commissions established pursuant to section 301 of the
 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11001).
 `(7) MONITORING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-
 `(A) MONITORING- The Director, in coordination with the Secretary,
 Administrator, Secretary of Energy, and Director of the National Institute
 of Environmental Health Sciences, shall monitor public sector emergency
 response training and planning for accidents and incidents involving
 hazardous materials.
 `(B) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Taking into account the results of monitoring under
 subparagraph (A), the Secretary, Director, Administrator, Secretary of Energy,
 and Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
 shall each provide technical assistance to States and political subdivisions
 thereof and Indian tribes for carrying out emergency response training and
 planning for accidents and incidents involving hazardous materials and shall
 coordinate the provision of such technical assistance using the existing
 coordinating mechanisms of the national response team and, for radioactive
 materials, the Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee.
 `(8) PUBLICATION OF LIST OF TRAINING PROGRAMS- The Secretary, in conjunction
 with the national response team, may publish a list of programs for training
 public sector employees to respond to accidents and incidents involving
 the transportation of hazardous materials which utilize one or more of the
 courses developed under this subsection.
 `(9) MINIMIZATION OF DUPLICATION OF EFFORT- The Secretary, Director,
 Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Administrator, Secretary of
 Labor, Secretary of Energy, and the Director of the National Institute of
 Environmental Health Sciences, in conjunction with the heads of other Federal
 departments, agencies, and instrumentalities, shall review periodically
 all emergency response and preparedness training programs of the Federal
 department, agency, or instrumentality which such person heads for the
 purpose of minimizing duplication of effort and expense of such departments,
 agencies, and instrumentalities in carrying out such training programs
 and shall take such actions, including coordination of training programs,
 as may be necessary to minimize such duplication of effort and expense.
 `(h) FEES FOR TRAINING AND PLANNING-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT AND COLLECTION- Not later than September 30, 1992, the
 Secretary shall establish and assess by regulation and collect an annual
 fee from each person who is required by or under section 106 to file a
 registration statement.
 `(2) FACTORS FOR DETERMINING AMOUNT OF FEES- Subject to paragraph (3),
 the amount of annual fees to be collected under this subsection shall be
 determined by the Secretary based on 1 or more of the following factors:
 `(A) The gross revenues from transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(B) The types of hazardous materials transported or caused to be transported.
 `(C) The quantities of hazardous material transported or caused to be
 transported.
 `(D) The number of shipments of hazardous materials.
 `(E) The number of activities which the person carries out and for which
 filing of a registration statement is required by or under section 106.
 `(F) The threat to property, persons, and the environment from an accident
 or incident involving the hazardous materials transported or caused to
 be transported.
 `(G) The percentage of gross revenues which are derived from the
 transportation of hazardous materials.
 `(H) The amount of funds which are to be made available to carry out this
 section and section 118.
 `(I) Such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(3) LIMITATIONS ON FEE AMOUNTS-
 `(A) MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM AMOUNT- Subject to subparagraph (B), the amount
 of a fee which may be collected from a person under this section in a year
 may not be less than $250 and may not exceed $5,000.
 `(B) ADJUSTMENTS- The Secretary shall adjust the amount of fees being
 collected from persons under this section to reflect any unspent balances
 in the account established under paragraph (6); except that nothing in this
 subsection shall be construed as requiring the Secretary to refund any fees
 collected under this subsection.
 `(4) TREATMENT OF FEES- Fees collected under this subsection shall be in
 addition to any fees which the Secretary may collect under section 106.
 `(5) TRANSFER TO SECRETARY OF TREASURY- The Secretary shall transfer to
 the Secretary of the Treasury amounts collected under this subsection for
 deposit in the account established under paragraph (6).
 `(6) USE OF AMOUNTS-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT- The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish
 in the Treasury an account into which the Secretary of the Treasury shall
 deposit amounts transferred by the Secretary of Transportation under paragraph
 (5).
 `(B) PURPOSES- Amounts in the account established under subparagraph (A)
 shall be available, without further appropriation--
 `(i) for making grants under this section and section 118,
 `(ii) for monitoring and providing technical assistance under subsection
 (g)(7), and
 `(iii) for paying the administrative costs of carrying out this section
 and section 118, but not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts made available
 from the account in any fiscal year.
 `(i) FUNDING-
 `(1) PLANNING GRANTS- There shall be available to the Secretary for carrying
 out subsection (a), from amounts in the account established pursuant to
 subsection (h), $5,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1993,
 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998.
 `(2) TRAINING GRANTS- There shall be available to the Secretary for carrying
 out subsection (b), from amounts in the account established pursuant to
 subsection (h), $7,800,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1993,
 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998.
 `(3) CURRICULUM-
 `(A) FROM GENERAL REVENUES- There is authorized to be appropriated to the
 Secretary to carry out subsection (g) (other than paragraph (7)) $1,000,000
 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1991 and 1992.
 `(B) FROM FEE ACCOUNT- There shall be available to the Secretary to carry
 out subsection (g) (other than paragraph (7)), from amounts in the account
 established pursuant to subsection (h), $1,000,000 per fiscal year for each
 of fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998.
 `(C) TRANSFERS- The Secretary may transfer from amounts made available
 under this paragraph such amounts as may be necessary to the Director to
 carry out subsection (g)(6), relating to dissemination of the curriculum.
 `(4) MONITORING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- There shall be available for
 carrying out subsection (g)(7), from amounts in the account established
 pursuant to subsection (h)--
 `(A) to each of the Secretary, Director, Administrator, and Secretary of
 Energy $750,000; and
 `(B) to the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health
 Sciences $200,000;
per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
and 1998.
 `(5) AVAILABILITY- Funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall
 remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 18. HAZMAT EMPLOYEE TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM.
 The Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1801-1813), as amended by section 17 of this Act,
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 118. HAZMAT EMPLOYEE TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM.
 `(a) GRANT PURPOSES- Grants for training and education of hazmat employees
 regarding the safe loading, unloading, handling, storage, and transportation
 of hazardous materials and emergency preparedness for responding to accidents
 or incidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials in order
 to meet the requirements issued under section 106(b) may be made under
 this section.
 `(b) ADMINISTRATION- Grants under this section shall be administered by
 the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in consultation
 with the Secretary, the Administrator, and the Secretary of Labor.
 `(c) GRANT RECIPIENTS- Grants under this section shall be awarded to nonprofit
 organizations which demonstrate expertise in implementing and operating
 training and education programs for hazmat employees and demonstrate the
 ability to reach and involve in training programs target populations of
 hazmat employees.
 `(d) FUNDING- There shall be available to the Director of the National
 Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to carry out this section, from
 amounts in the account established pursuant to section 117(h), $250,000 per
 fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998.'.
SEC. 19. RAILROAD TANK CARS.
 The Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1801 et seq.), as amended by section 18 of this Act,
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 119. RAILROAD TANK CARS.
 `(a) PROHIBITIONS FOR CERTAIN MATERIALS- No railroad tank car constructed
 before January 1, 1971, may be used for the transportation in commerce of any
 class A or B explosives, any hazardous material which has been designated by
 the Secretary as toxic by inhalation, or any other hazardous material the
 Secretary determines should be subject to such requirement, unless the air
 brake equipment support attachments of such tank car at a minimum comply
 with the standards for attachments set forth in part 179.100-16 and part
 179.200-19 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the
 date of enactment of this section.
 `(b) APPLICABILITY TO OTHER MATERIALS- No railroad tank car constructed
 before January 1, 1971, may be used for the transportation in commerce of any
 hazardous material after July 1, 1991, unless the air brake equipment support
 attachments of such tank car comply with the standards for attachments set
 forth in part 179.100-16 and part 179.200-19 of title 49, Code of Federal
 Regulations, as in effect on the date of enactment of this section.'.
SEC. 20. APPLICATION OF FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAW TO FEDERAL CONTRACTORS.
 The Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1801-1813), as amended by section 19 of this Act,
 is further amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 120. APPLICATION OF FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAW TO FEDERAL CONTRACTORS.
 `Any person who, under contract with any department, agency, or
 instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the
 Federal government, transports, or causes to be transported or shipped,
 a hazardous material or manufacturers, fabricates, marks, maintains,
 reconditions, repairs, or tests a package or container which is represented,
 marked, certified, or sold by such person as qualified for use in the
 transportation of hazardous materials shall be subject to and comply with
 all provisions of this title, all orders and regulations issued under this
 title, and all other substantive and procedural requirements of Federal,
 State, and local governments and Indian tribes (except any such requirements
 that have been preempted by this title or any other Federal law), in the same
 manner and to the same extent as any person engaged in such activities that
 are in or affect commerce is subject to such provisions, orders, regulations,
 and requirements.'.
SEC. 21. RAILROAD TANK CAR STUDY.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Transportation shall enter into a contract with
 an appropriate disinterested expert body for a study of--
 (1) the railroad tank car design process, including specifications
 development, design approval, repair process approval, repair accountability,
 and the process by which designs and repairs are presented, weighted,
 and evaluated, and
 (2) railroad tank car design criteria, including whether headshields should
 be installed on all tank cars which carry hazardous materials.
In carrying out the study described in paragraph (1), such expert body
shall also make recommendations as to whether public safety considerations
require greater control by and input from the Secretary with respect to the
railroad tank car design process, especially in the early stages, and such
other recommendations as such expert body considers appropriate.
 (b) REPORT- The Secretary of Transportation shall report the results of
 such study and such recommendations to the Congress within 1 year after
 the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 22. UNIFORMITY OF STATE MOTOR CARRIER REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING FORMS
AND PROCEDURES.
 The Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1801-1813), as amended by section 20 of this Act,
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 121. UNIFORMITY OF STATE MOTOR CARRIER REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING
FORMS AND PROCEDURES.
 `(a) WORKING GROUP- As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment
 of this section, the Secretary shall establish a working group comprised
 of State and local government officials, including representatives of the
 National Governors' Association, the National Association of Counties,
 the National League of Cities, the United States Conference of Mayors,
 and the National Conference of State Legislatures, for the purpose of--
 `(1) establishing uniform forms and procedures for States that register
 persons who transport, cause to be transported, or ship a hazardous material,
 by motor vehicle; and
 `(2) determining whether or not to limit the filing of any State registration
 forms and collection of fees therefor to the State in which a person resides
 or has its principal place of business.
 `(b) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT- The working group established under this
 section shall consult with persons who are subject to the registration
 requirements described in subsection (a) in establishing uniform forms and
 procedures and making the determination described in subsection (a).
 `(c) REPORT- The working group established under this section shall transmit
 a final report to the Secretary and to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
 and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Public Works and
 Transportation of the House of Representatives not later than 36 months after
 the date of the enactment of this section. The final report shall contain
 a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the working group,
 together with its joint recommendations concerning the matters referred to
 in subsection (a).
 `(d) REGULATIONS-
 `(1) GENERAL RULE- Subject to the provisions of this subsection, the
 Secretary shall issue regulations implementing those recommendations
 contained in the report transmitted to the Secretary under subsection (c)
 with which the Secretary agrees.
 `(2) DEADLINE- Regulations required to be issued by this subsection shall
 be issued by the later of the following dates:
 `(A) The last day of the 3-year period beginning on the date the organizations
 referred to in subsection (a) transmit their final joint report to the
 Secretary.
 `(B) The last day of the 90-day period beginning on the date on which 26
 or more States adopt all of such recommendations.
 `(3) NO LIMIT OF AMOUNT OF FEES- Regulations issued under this section
 shall not define or limit the amounts of any fees which may be imposed or
 collected by any State.
 `(e) UNIFORMITY- A regulation issued pursuant to this section shall take
 effect 1 year after the date of its issuance; except that the Secretary
 may extend such 1-year period for an additional 1-year period for good
 cause. After the effective date of such regulation, no State shall establish,
 maintain, or enforce any requirement which relates to the subject matter
 of such regulation unless such requirement is the same as such regulation.
 `(f) IMPLEMENTATION EFFICIENCY- The Secretary, in consultation with the
 working group established under this section, shall develop a procedure
 to eliminate any differences in State implementation of regulations issued
 pursuant to this section.
 `(g) APPLICABILITY OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT- The working group established
 under this section shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
 `(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION- There is authorized to be appropriated
 for carrying out this section $400,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal
 years 1991, 1992, and 1993. Such sums shall remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 23. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
 Section 30(b)(2) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 (49 U.S.C. 10927 note)
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION-
 `(A) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the
 minimal level of financial responsibility established by the Secretary under
 paragraph (1) of this subsection for any vehicle transporting in interstate
 or intrastate commerce--
 `(i) hazardous substances (as defined by the Administrator of the
 Environmental Protection Agency) in cargo tanks, portable tanks, or
 hopper-type vehicles, with capacities in excess of 3,500 water gallons,
 `(ii) in bulk class A explosives, poison gas, liquefied gas, or compressed
 gas, or
 `(iii) large quantities of radioactive materials,
shall not be less than $5,000,000.
 `(B) PHASE-IN REDUCTION- The Secretary, by regulation, may reduce the
 $5,000,000 amount under subparagraph (A) (but not to an amount less than
 $1,000,000) for any class of vehicles or operations for the 3 1/2 -year
 period beginning on the effective date of the regulations issued under
 this subsection or any part of such period if the Secretary finds that
 such reduction will not adversely affect public safety and will prevent a
 serious disruption in transportation service.
 `(C) TERRITORY REDUCTION- The Secretary, by regulation, may reduce the
 $5,000,000 amount under subparagraph (A) (but not to an amount less
 than $1,000,000) for transportation described in subparagraph (A) in the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the
 Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands if the chief executive officer of
 such territory requests the reduction and if the reduction will not adversely
 affect public safety, will prevent a serious disruption in transportation
 service, and insurance at the $5,000,000 level is not readily available.'.
SEC. 24. FEDERALLY LEASED COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
 Section 210 of the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1984 (49 U.S.C. App. 2509)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) FEDERALLY LEASED COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES- Any State which receives
 Federal financial assistance under section 402 of the Surface Transportation
 Assistance Act of 1982 in a fiscal year may apply and enforce in such fiscal
 year any regulations pertaining to commercial motor vehicle safety adopted
 by such State with respect to commercial motor vehicles and operators leased
 to the United States.'.
SEC. 25. IMPROVEMENTS TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IDENTIFICATION SYSTEMS.
 (a) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING-
 (1) INITIATION- In order to develop methods of improving the current system
 of identifying hazardous materials being transported in vehicles for
 safeguarding the health and safety of persons responding to emergencies
 involving such hazardous materials and the public and to facilitate the
 review and reporting process required by subsection (d), the Secretary of
 Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding not later than 30
 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (2) PRIMARY PURPOSES- The primary purposes of the rulemaking proceeding
 initiated under this subsection are--
 (A) to determine methods of improving the current system of placarding
 vehicles transporting hazardous materials; and
 (B) to determine methods for establishing and operating a central reporting
 system and computerized telecommunications data center described in subsection
 (b)(1).
 (3) METHODS OF IMPROVING PLACARDING SYSTEM- The methods of improving the
 current system of placarding to be considered under the rulemaking proceeding
 initiated under this subsection shall include methods to make such placards
 more visible, methods to reduce the number of improper and missing placards,
 alternative methods of marking vehicles for the purpose of identifying the
 hazardous materials being transported, methods of modifying the composition
 of placards in order to ensure their resistance to flammability, methods of
 improving the coding system used with respect to such placards, identification
 of appropriate emergency response procedures through symbols on placards,
 and whether or not telephone numbers of any continually monitored telephone
 systems which are established under the Hazardous Materials Transportation
 Act are displayed on vehicles transporting hazardous materials.
 (4) COMPLETION OF RULEMAKING PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO REPORTING SYSTEM
 AND DATA CENTER- Not later than 19 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall complete the rulemaking
 proceeding initiated with respect to the central reporting system and
 computerized telecommunications data center described in subsection (b).
 (5) FINAL RULE WITH RESPECT TO PLACARDING- Not later than 30 months after
 the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall
 issue a final rule relating to improving the current system for placarding
 vehicles transporting hazardous materials.
 (b) CENTRAL REPORTING SYSTEM AND COMPUTERIZED TELECOMMUNICATIONS DATA
 CENTER STUDY-
 (1) ARRANGEMENTS WITH NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- Not later than 30 days
 after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation
 shall undertake to enter into appropriate arrangements with the National
 Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of the feasibility and necessity
 of establishing and operating a central reporting system and computerized
 telecommunications data center that is capable of receiving, storing, and
 retrieving data concerning all daily shipments of hazardous materials,
 that can identify hazardous materials being transported by any mode of
 transportation, and that can provide information to facilitate responses to
 accidents and incidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials.
 (2) CONSULTATION AND REPORT- In entering into any arrangements with the
 National Academy of Sciences for conducting the study under this section, the
 Secretary of Transportation shall request the National Academy of Sciences--
 (A) to consult with the Department of Transportation, the Department of Health
 and Human Services, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency
 Management Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
 shippers and carriers of hazardous materials, manufacturers of computerized
 telecommunications systems, State and local emergency preparedness
 organizations (including law enforcement and firefighting organizations),
 and appropriate international organizations in conducting such study; and
 (B) to submit, not later than 19 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, to the Secretary, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
 Transportation of the Senate, and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and
 Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives a report
 on the results of such study.
Such report shall include recommendations of the National Academy of Sciences
with respect to establishment and operation of a central reporting system
and computerized telecommunications data center described in paragraph (1).
 (3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION- In addition to amounts authorized
 under section 115 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, there is
 authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation to carry
 out this subsection $350,000.
 (c) ADDITIONAL PURPOSES OF RULEMAKING PROCEEDING AND STUDY- Additional
 purposes of the rulemaking proceeding initiated under subsection (a) with
 respect to a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data
 center described in subsection (b) and the study conducted under subsection
 (b) are--
 (1) to determine whether such a system and center should be established and
 operated by the United States Government or by a private entity, either on
 its own initiative or under contract with the United States;
 (2) to determine, on an annualized basis, the estimated cost for establishing,
 operating, and maintaining such a system and center and for carrier and
 shipper compliance with such a system;
 (3) to determine methods for financing the cost of establishing, operating,
 and maintaining such a system and center;
 (4) to determine projected safety benefits of establishing and operating
 such a system and center;
 (5) to determine whether or not shippers, carriers, and handlers of hazardous
 materials, in addition to law enforcement officials and persons responsible
 for responding to emergencies involving hazardous materials, should have
 access to such system for obtaining information concerning shipments of
 hazardous materials and technical and other information and advice with
 respect to such emergencies;
 (6) to determine methods for ensuring the security of the information and
 data stored in such a system;
 (7) to determine types of hazardous materials and types of shipments for
 which information and data should be stored in such a system;
 (8) to determine the degree of liability of the operator of such a system
 and center for providing incorrect, false, or misleading information;
 (9) to determine deadlines by which shippers, carriers, and handlers of
 hazardous materials should be required to submit information to the operator
 of such a system and center and minimum standards relating to the form and
 contents of such information;
 (10) to determine measures (including the imposition of civil and criminal
 penalties) for ensuring compliance with the deadlines and standards referred
 to in paragraph (9); and
 (11) to determine methods for accessing such a system through mobile satellite
 service or other technologies having the capability to provide 2-way voice,
 data, or facsimile services.
 (d) REVIEW AND REPORT TO CONGRESS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 25 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall review the report of the
 National Academy of Sciences submitted under subsection (b) and the results
 of rulemaking proceeding initiated under subsection (a) with respect to a
 central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center
 and shall prepare and submit to Congress a report summarizing the report
 of the National Academy of Sciences and the results of such rulemaking
 proceeding, together with the Secretary's recommendations concerning the
 establishment and operation of such a system and center and the Secretary's
 recommendations concerning implementation of the recommendations contained
 in the report of the National Academy of Sciences.
 (2) WEIGHT TO BE GIVEN TO RECOMMENDATIONS OF NAS- In conducting the review
 and preparing the report under this subsection, the Secretary shall give
 substantial weight to the recommendations contained in the report of the
 National Academy of Sciences submitted under subsection (b).
 (3) INCLUSION OF REASONS FOR NOT FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS- If the Secretary
 does not include in the report prepared for submission to Congress under
 this subsection a recommendation for implementation of a recommendation
 contained in the report of the National Academy of Sciences submitted under
 subsection (b), the Secretary shall include in the report to Congress under
 this subsection the Secretary's reasons for not recommending implementation
 of the recommendation of the National Academy of Sciences.
SEC. 26. CONTINUALLY MONITORED TELEPHONE SYSTEMS.
 (a) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING- Not later than 90 days after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a
 rulemaking proceeding on the feasibility, necessity, and safety benefits
 of requiring carriers involved in the hazardous materials transportation
 industry to establish continually monitored telephone systems equipped
 to provide emergency response information and assistance with respect to
 accidents and incidents involving hazardous materials. Additional objectives
 of such proceeding shall be to determine which hazardous materials, if any,
 should be covered by such a requirement and which segments of such industry
 (including persons who own and operate motor vehicles, trains, vessels,
 aircraft, and in-transit storage facilities) should be covered by such
 a requirement.
 (b) COMPLETION OF PROCEEDING- Not later than 30 months after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall complete
 the proceeding under this section and may issue a final rule relating
 to establishment of continually monitored telephone systems described in
 subsection (a).
SEC. 27. SHIPPER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT.
 Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress a report on--
 (1) the safety benefits of a law which provides that if a person causes
 a hazardous material to be transported in bulk in commerce by a motor
 carrier, which is involved in a hazardous material incident and which
 has an unsatisfactory safety rating issued by the Secretary or which has a
 conditional safety rating issued by the Secretary which has been in effect for
 a period of more than 12 months, such person shall be liable for at least 50
 percent of the costs, damages, and attorney's fees assessed against the motor
 carrier for any hazardous material incident involving such transportation;
 (2) such other systems as the Secretary of Transportation may determine
 would assure responsible actions by a person who causes the transportation
 of hazardous material in bulk in commerce; and
 (3) the safety benefits of a law which provides that the liability of the
 person or persons who caused such a shipment of hazardous materials may
 not be transferred by indemnification, hold harmless, or similar agreements.
SEC. 28. STATE PARTICIPATION IN INVESTIGATIONS AND SURVEILLANCE.
 (a) AMENDMENT OF SECTION 206(a) OF FRSA- Section 206(a) of the Federal
 Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 435(a)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `related to railroad safety' after `standard prescribed';
 (2) by striking `under this title' the first place it appears;
 (3) by striking `established under this title' in paragraph (2); and
 (4) by striking `prescribed by the Secretary under section 202(a) of
 this title' and inserting `relating to railroad safety prescribed by the
 Secretary'.
 (b) AMENDMENT OF SECTION 206(b) OF FRSA- Section 206(b) of the Federal
 Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 435(b)) is amended by striking
 `prescribed by him under section 202(a) of this title' and inserting
 `relating to railroad safety prescribed by the Secretary'.
 (c) AMENDMENT OF SECTION 206(f) OF FRSA- Section 206(f) of the Federal
 Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 435(f)) is amended by striking
 `under this title'.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 206 OF FRSA- Section 206 of the Federal Railroad
 Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 435) is amended by adding at the end the
 following:
 `(h) There is authorized to be appropriated for carrying out this section
 $5,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993.'.
 (e) AMENDMENT OF SECTION 207(a)(1) OF FRSA- Section 207(a)(1) of the Federal
 Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 436(a)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `under section 209 of this title with respect'; and
 (2) by striking `issued under this title or under any law transferred by
 section 6(e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(6)(A) of the Department of Transportation
 Act'.
 (f) AMENDMENT OF SECTION 210(a) OF FRSA- Section 210(a) of the Federal
 Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 439(a)) is amended by striking `this
 title or to enforce rules, regulations, orders, or standards established
 under this title' and inserting `or to enforce rules, regulations, orders,
 or standards relating to railroad safety'.
SEC. 29. RETENTION OF MARKINGS AND PLACARDS.
 Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation
 and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall issue under section 6(b) of the
 Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 655(b)) standards
 requiring any employer who receives a package, container, motor vehicle,
 rail freight car, aircraft, or vessel which contains a hazardous material
 and which is required to be marked, placarded, or labeled in accordance
 with regulations issued under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act to
 retain the markings, placards, and labels, and any other information as may
 be required by such regulations on the package, container, motor vehicle,
 rail freight car, aircraft, or vessel, until the hazardous materials have
 been removed therefrom.
SEC. 30. RELATIONSHIP TO FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY ACT OF 1970.
 Nothing in this Act, including the amendments made by this Act, shall be
 construed to alter, amend, modify, or otherwise affect the scope of section
 205 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970.
SEC. 31. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in this Act, this Act (including the
 amendments made by this Act) shall take effect on the date of the enactment
 of this Act.
 (b) CONTINUATION OF EXISTING REGULATIONS- Any regulation or ruling issued
 before the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to the Hazardous
 Materials Transportation Act and any authority granted under such a
 regulation shall continue in effect according to its terms until repealed,
 terminated, amended, or modified by the Secretary of Transportation or a
 court of competent jurisdiction.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.