 
--S.3069--
S.3069
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide a method of locating private and Government research on
environmental
issues by geographic location.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Environmental Research Geographic Location
 Information Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) at present, there is no reliable method of locating private or Government
 research on environmental issues by geographic location; and
 (2) a means of identifying environmental research conducted at specific
 geographic locations is needed for purposes such as detecting trends in
 environmental quality, assisting the public in learning about the quality and
 issues of their local environment, and providing a data base for identifying
 areas of critical environmental concern.
SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this Act is to develop a data base of environmental research
 articles indexed by geographic location.
SEC. 4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
 (a) RESEARCH JOURNALS- Within 6 months following the date of the enactment
 of this Act, and from time to time thereafter, the Environmental Protection
 Agency shall identify not less than 35 important environmental research
 journals, conference proceedings or other reference sources in which
 scientific research or engineering studies related to air, water, or
 soil quality or pollution or other environmental issues are routinely
 published. In carrying out the requirements of this subsection, at least
 50 journals or proceedings shall be reviewed.
 (b) INDEX- (1) Within 12 months following the date of the enactment of
 this Act, and annually thereafter, the Environmental Protection Agency
 shall review the journals and other materials identified in subsection
 (a) and compile, maintain and publish an index of the articles contained
 therein during the preceding calendar year by geographic location. A copy
 of such index shall be made available to the Service for distribution to
 the public, and a copy shall be submitted to the Congress not less than 30
 days prior to the date on which it is made available to the Service.
 (2) Beginning 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Agency shall identify not less than 20 materials identified in subsection (a)
 which were published during the time period from 1970 to the year preceding
 enactment, and shall compile and publish a series of indices of articles
 contained therein by geographic location. The time frame which each index
 contains should not exceed 5 years.
 (c) PURCHASE OF INFORMATION- The Environmental Protection Agency is authorized
 to enter into contracts or other arrangements for the acquisition of data
 and other information necessary for purposes of this Act.
 (d) REVISING LIST- The Environmental Protection Agency shall review the
 list of references developed under this section at least biennially and
 shall revise the list of sources as appropriate.
 (e) SPECIFIC LOCATION OF RESEARCH PROJECTS- Unless exempted by the
 Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, all reports resulting
 from research projects sponsored by the Environmental Protection Agency and
 initiated after the expiration of the 36-month period following the date
 of enactment of this Act shall indicate the specific location to which the
 research pertains.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
SEC. 6. EXPIRATION OF ACT.
 This Act shall expire 10 years after the date of its enactment.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.