 
--S.3084--
S.3084
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the settlement of water rights claims of the Fallon Paiute
Shoshone
Indian Tribes and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--FALLON PAIUTE SHOSHONE TRIBAL SETTLEMENT ACT
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Fallon Paiute Shoshone Indian Tribes Water
 Rights Settlement Act of 1990'.
SEC. 102. SETTLEMENT FUND.
 (A) There is hereby established within the Treasury of the United States,
 the `Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribal Settlement Fund', hereinafter referred
 to in the Act as the `Fund'.
 (B) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Fallon Paiute Shoshone
 Tribal Settlement Fund $3,000,000 in fiscal year 1992, and $8,000,000 in
 each year for fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 for a total
 sum of $43,000,000.
 (C)(1) The income of the Fund may be obligated and expended only for the
 following purposes:
 (a) Tribal economic development, including development of long-term
 profit-making opportunities for the Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribes
 (hereinafter referred to in the Act as `Tribes') and its tribal members,
 and the development of employment opportunities for tribal members;
 (b) Tribal governmental services and facilities;
 (c) Per capita distributions to tribal members;
 (d) Rehabilitation and betterment of the irrigation system on the Fallon
 Paiute Shoshone Indian Reservation (hereinafter referred to in the Act as
 `Reservation')  not including lands added to the Reservation pursuant to
 the provisions of Public Law 95-337, 92 Stat. 455;
 (e) Acquisition of lands, water rights or related property interests located
 outside the Reservation from willing sellers, and improvement of such lands;
 (f) Acquisition of individually-owned land, water rights or related property
 interests on the Reservation from willing sellers, including those held in
 trust by the United States.
 (2) Except as provided in subsection (C)(3) of this section, the principal
 of the Fund shall not be obligated or expended.
 (3) In obligating and expending funds for the purposes set forth in
 subsections (C)(1)(d), (C)(1)(e) and (C)(1)(f) of this section, the Tribes
 may obligate and expend no more than 20 percent of the principal of the
 Fund, provided that any amounts so obligated and expended from principal
 must be restored to the principal from repayments of such amounts expended
 for the purposes identified in this subsection, or from income earned on
 the remaining principal.
 (4) In obligating and expending funds for the purpose set forth in subsection
 (C)(1)(c), no more than twenty percent of the annual income from the Fund
 may be obligated or expended for the purpose of providing per capita payments
 to tribal members.
 (D) The Tribes shall invest, manage, and use the monies appropriated to
 the Fund for the purposes set forth in this section in accordance with
 the plan developed in consultation with the Secretary under subsection (F)
 of this section.
 (E) Upon the request of the Tribes, the Secretary shall invest the sums
 deposited in, accruing to, and remaining in the Fund, in interest-bearing
 deposits and securities in accordance with the Act of June 24, 1938,
 52 Stat. 1037, 25 U.S.C. 162a, as amended. All income earned on such
 investments shall be added to the Fund.
 (F)(1) The Tribes shall develop a plan, in consultation with the Secretary,
 for the investment, management, administration and expenditure of the
 monies in the Fund, and shall submit the plan to the Secretary. The
 plan shall set forth the manner in which such monies will be managed,
 administered and expended for the purposes outlined in subsection (C)(1)
 of this section. Such plan may be revised and updated by the Tribes in
 consultation with the Secretary.
 (2) The plan shall include a description of a project for the rehabilitation
 and betterment of the existing irrigation system on the Reservation. The
 rehabilitation and betterment project shall include measures to increase
 the efficiency of irrigation deliveries. The Secretary may assist in the
 development of the rehabilitation and betterment project, and the Tribes
 shall use their best efforts to implement the project within four years of
 the time when appropriations authorized in subsection (B) of this section
 become available.
 (3) Upon the request of the Tribes, the Secretary of the Treasury and
 the Secretary of the Interior shall make available to the Tribes, monies
 from the Fund to serve any of the purposes set forth in subsection (C)(1)
 of this section, except that no disbursement shall be made to the Tribes
 unless and until they adopt the plan required under this section.
 (G) The provisions of section 7 of Public Law 93-134, 87 Stat. 468, as
 amended by section 4 of Public Law 97-458, 96 Stat. 2513, 25 U.S.C. 1407,
 shall apply to any funds which may be distributed per capita under subsection
 (C)(1)(c) of this section.
SEC. 103. ACQUISITION AND USE OF LANDS AND WATER RIGHTS.
 (A) Title to all lands, water rights and related property interests acquired
 under section 102(C)(1)(e) within the counties of Churchill and Lyon in the
 State of Nevada, shall be held in trust by the United States for the Tribes
 as part of the Reservation, provided that no more than 2,415.3 acres of
 such acquired lands and no more than 8,453.55 acre feet per year of such
 water rights shall be held in trust by the United States and become part
 of the Reservation under this subsection.
 (B) Any lands acquired under section 102(C)(1)(e) or (f) shall be subject to
 the provisions of section 20 of the Act of October 17, 1988, 102 Stat. 2485.
 (C)(1) Total annual use of water rights appurtenant to the Reservation
 which are served by the Newlands Reclamation Project, including Newlands
 Reclamation Project water rights added to the Reservation under subsection
 (A) of this section, whether used on the Reservation or transferred and used
 off the Reservation pursuant to applicable law, shall not exceed the sum of:
 (a) 10,587.5 acre feet of water per year, which is the quantum of water rights
 served by the Newlands Reclamation Project appurtenant to the Fallon Paiute
 Shoshone Indian Reservation lands that are currently served by irrigation
 facilities; and
 (b) the quantum of active Newlands Reclamation Project water rights currently
 located outside of the Reservation that may be added to the Reservation or
 water rights which are acquired by the Secretary and exercised to benefit
 Reservation wetlands.
 (2) The requirements of section 103(C)(1) shall not take effect until the
 Tribes agree to the limitations on annual use of water rights set forth in
 subsection (1) of this section.
 (D) The Secretary is authorized and directed to reimburse non-Federal
 entities for reasonable and customary costs for delivery of Newlands
 Reclamation Project water to serve water rights added to the Reservation
 under subsection (A) of this section, and to enter into renewable contracts
 for the payment of such costs, for a term not exceeding forty years.
 (E) Subject to the limitation on the quantum of use set forth in subsection
 (C) of this section, and applicable state law, all water rights appurtenant
 to the Reservation that are served by the Newlands Reclamation Project,
 including Newlands Reclamation Project water rights added to the Reservation
 under subsection (A) of this section, may be used for irrigation, fish and
 wildlife, municipal and industrial, recreation, or water quality purposes,
 or for any other beneficial use subject to applicable laws of the State of
 Nevada. Nothing in this subsection is intended to affect the jurisdiction
 of the Tribes or the State of Nevada, if any, over the use and transfer of
 water rights within the Reservation or off the Reservation, or to create
 any express or implied Federal reserved water right.
 (F)(1) The Tribes are authorized to acquire by purchase, by exchange of
 lands or water rights, or interests therein, including those held in trust
 for the Tribes, or by gift, any lands or water rights, or interests therein,
 including those held in trust, located within the Reservation, for any of
 the following purposes:
 (a) Consolidating Reservation landholdings or water rights, including those
 held in trust;
 (b) Eliminating fractionated heirship interests in Reservation lands or
 water rights, including those held in trust;
 (c) Providing land or water rights for any tribal program;
 (d) Improving the economy of the Tribes and the economic status of tribal
 members through the development of industry, recreational facilities,
 housing projects, or other means; and
 (e) General rehabilitation and enhancement of the total resource potential
 of the Reservation: Provided, That any water rights shall be transferred
 in compliance with applicable state law.
 (2) Title to any lands or water rights, or interests therein, acquired by
 the Tribes within the counties of Churchill and Lyon in the State of Nevada
 under the authority of this subsection shall be held by the United States
 in trust for the Tribes.
SEC. 104. RELEASE OF CLAIMS.
 (A)(1) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Interior
 shall not disburse any monies from the Fund until such time as the following
 conditions have been met--
 (a) the Tribes have released any and all claims they may have against the
 United States resulting from any failure of the United States to comply
 with section 7 of Public Law 95-337, 92 Stat. 457;
 (b) the Tribes have dismissed with prejudice their claims in Northern Paiute
 Nation v. United States, Docket No. 87-A, United States Claims Court;
 (c) the Tribes have agreed to accept and abide by the limitation on use of
 water rights served by the Newlands Reclamation Project on the Reservation,
 as set forth in section 103(C);
 (d) the Tribes have dismissed, without prejudice, their claims in Pyramid
 Lake Paiute Tribe of Indians v. Lujan, No. R-85-197 (D. Nev.) and their
 objections to the Operating Criteria and Procedures for the Newlands
 Reclamation Project adopted by the Secretary on April 15, 1988, provided
 that such dismissal shall not prejudice in any respect the Tribes' right
 to object in any administrative or judicial proceeding to such Operating
 Criteria and Procedures, or any revisions thereto, or to assert that any
 Operating Criteria and Procedures should be changed due to new information,
 changes in environmental circumstance, changes in project descriptions or
 other relevant considerations, in accordance with the requirements of all
 applicable court decrees and applicable statutory requirements;
 (e) the Tribes agree to be bound by a plan developed and implemented by
 the Secretary in accordance with section 106 of this title; and
 (f)(1) the Tribes agree to indemnify the United States against monetary
 claims by any landowners who may hold water rights on the Reservation as
 of the date of enactment of the Act and who may assert that the provisions
 of section 103(C) of this title effect an unlawful taking of their rights:
 Provided, That--
 (i) the United States shall defend and resist any such claims at its own
 expense;
 (ii) the Tribes shall be entitled to intervene in any administrative or
 judicial proceeding on such claims; and
 (iii) the United States shall not compromise or settle any such claims
 without the consent of the Tribes.
 (2) The provisions of this section shall not be construed as:
 (i) implying that section 103(C) unlawfully takes any water rights;
 (ii) conferring jurisdiction on any court or other tribunal to adjudicate
 any such taking claims;
 (iii) waiving any immunities of the United States or the Tribes; or
 (iv) otherwise establishing or enhancing any claims to water rights or for
 the unlawful taking of such rights.
 (2) If the appropriations authorized in section 102(B) are not appropriated
 by the Congress, it shall be deemed that the conditions set forth in this Act
 have not been satisfied, and the Tribes may rescind their release of claims
 under this section and its agreement under subsection (c) of this section.
 (3) Upon the appropriation of monies authorized in section 102(B) of this
 Act, and the allocation of such monies to the Fund, section 7 of Public
 Law 95-337, 92 Stat. 457, shall be repealed.
SEC. 105. LIABILITY OF THE UNITED STATES.
 (A) Except with regard to the responsibilities assumed by the United States
 under section 102(E), and those set forth in section 1301 of the Act of
 February 12, 1929, 45 Stat. 1164, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 161a, the United
 States shall not bear any obligation or liability regarding the investment,
 management, or use of funds by the Tribes.
 (B) Except with regard to the responsibilities assumed by the United States
 under section 102(B), section 102(F)(3), section 103(A), section 103(D),
 section 103(F)(2), section 104(A)(1), and section 106, the United States
 shall not bear any obligation or liability for the implementation of the
 provisions of this Act.
SEC. 106. PLAN FOR THE CLOSURE OF TJ DRAIN.
 (A) The Secretary, in consultation with the Tribes and in accordance with
 applicable law, shall develop and implement a plan for the closure, including
 if appropriate, modification of components, of the TJ drain system, including
 the main TJ drain, the TJ-1 drain and the A drain and its sublaterals, in
 order to address any significant environmental problems with that system
 and its closure.
 (B) The plan shall include measures to provide necessary substitute drainage
 in accordance with Bureau of Reclamation standards for reservation lands
 in agricultural production as of the 1990 irrigation season that are served
 by that system, unless the Tribes and the Secretary agree otherwise.
 (C) Implementation of the plan shall not interfere with ongoing agricultural
 operations.
 (D) The United States shall bear all costs for developing and implementing
 the plan.
 (E) There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the provisions of this section.
SEC. 107. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this title, and for no other purposes--
 (A) the term `Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribal Settlement Fund' or `Fund'
 means the Fund established under section 102(A) of this Act to enable the
 Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribes to carry out the purposes set forth in section
 102(C)(1) of this title;
 (B) the term `income' means all interest, dividends, gains and other earnings
 resulting from the investment of the principal of the Fallon Paiute Shoshone
 Tribal Settlement Fund, and the earnings resulting from the investment of
 such income;
 (C) the term `principal' means the total sum of monies appropriated to
 the Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribal Settlement Fund under section 102(B)
 of this Act;
 (D) the term `Reservation' means the lands set aside for the benefit of
 the Fallon Paiute Shoshone Tribes by the orders of the Department of the
 Interior of April 20, 1907, and November 21, 1917, as expanded and confirmed
 by the Act of August 4, 1978, Public Law 95-337, 92 Stat. 457;
 (E) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Department of the
 Interior;
 (F) the term `tribal members' means the enrolled members of the Fallon
 Paiute Shoshone Tribes; and
 (G) the term `Tribe' means the Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribe.
TITLE II--TRUCKEE-CARSON-PYRAMID LAKE WATER SETTLEMENT
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Truckee-Carson-Pyramid Lake Water Rights
 Settlement Act'.
SEC. 202. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this title shall be to--
 (a) provide for the equitable apportionment of the waters of the Truckee
 River, Carson River, and Lake Tahoe between the State of California and
 the State of Nevada;
 (b) authorize modifications to the purposes and operation of certain Federal
 Reclamation project facilities to provide benefits to fish and wildlife,
 municipal, industrial, and irrigation users, and recreation;
 (c) authorize acquisition of water rights for fish and wildlife;
 (d) encourage settlement of litigation and claims;
 (e) fulfill Federal trust obligations toward Indian tribes;
 (f) fulfill the goals of the Endangered Species Act by promoting the
 enhancement and recovery of the Pyramid Lake fishery; and
 (g) protect significant wetlands from further degradation and enhance
 the habitat of many species of wildlife which depend on those wetlands,
 and for other purposes.
SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this title:
 (a) the term `Alpine court' means the court having continuing jurisdiction
 over the Alpine decree;
 (b) the term `Alpine decree' means the final decree of the United States
 District Court for the District of Nevada in United States of America
 v. Alpine Land and Reservoir Company, Civ. No. D-183, entered December 18,
 1980, and any supplements thereto;
 (c) the term `Carson River basin' means the area which naturally drains
 into the Carson River and its tributaries and into the Carson River Sink,
 but excluding the Humboldt River drainage area;
 (d) the term `Fallon Tribe' means the Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribe;
 (e) the term `Lahontan Valley wetlands' means wetland areas associated with
 the Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge, Stillwater Wildlife Management Area,
 Carson Lake and Pasture, and the Fallon Indian Reservation;
 (f) the term `Lake Tahoe basin' means the drainage area naturally tributary
 to Lake Tahoe, including the lake, and including the Truckee River upstream
 of the intersection between the Truckee River and the western boundary of
 Section 12, Township 15 North, Range 16 East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian;
 (g) the term `Lower Truckee River' means the Truckee River below Derby Dam;
 (h) the term `Operating Agreement' means the agreement to be negotiated
 between the Secretary and the States of California and Nevada and others,
 as more fully described in section 205 of this title;
 (i) the term `Orr Ditch court' means the court having continuing jurisdiction
 over the Orr Ditch decree;
 (j) the term `Orr Ditch decree' means the decree of the United States
 District Court for the District of Nevada in United States of America
 v. Orr Water Ditch Company, et al- in Equity, Docket No. A3, including,
 but not limited to the Truckee River Agreement;
 (k) the term `Preliminary Settlement Agreement as Modified by the Ratification
 Agreement' means the document with the title `Ratification Agreement by the
 United States of America,' including Exhibit `1' attached thereto, submitted
 to the Chairman, Subcommittee on Water and Power, Committee on Energy and
 Natural Resources, United States Senate, by the Assistant Secretary for
 Water and Science, United States Department of the Interior, on August 2,
 1990, as may be amended under the terms thereof. A copy of this agreement
 is included in the report of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 as Appendix 1 to the Committee's report accompanying S. 1554;
 (l) the term `Pyramid Lake fishery' means two fish species found in Pyramid
 Lake, the cui-ui (Chasmistes cujus) and the Lahontan cutthroat trout (Salmo
 clarki henshawi);
 (m) the term `Pyramid Lake Tribe' means the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe;
 (n) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
 (o) the term `Truckee River Agreement' means a certain agreement dated July
 1, 1935 and entered into by the United States of America, Truckee-Carson
 Irrigation District, Washoe County Water Conservation District, Sierra
 Pacific Power Company, and other users of the waters of the Truckee River;
 (p) the term `Truckee River basin' means the area which naturally drains
 into the Truckee River and its tributaries and into Pyramid Lake, including
 that lake, but excluding the Lake Tahoe basin;
 (q) the term `Truckee River General Electric court' means the United States
 District Court for the Eastern District of California court having continuing
 jurisdiction over the Truckee River General Electric decree;
 (r) the term `Truckee River General Electric decree' means the decree
 entered June 4, 1915, by the United States District Court for the Northern
 District of California in United States of America v. Truckee River General
 Electric Co., No. 14861, which case was transferred to the United States
 District Court for the Eastern District of California on February 9, 1968,
 and is now designated No. S-643;
 (s) the term `Truckee River reservoirs' means the storage provided by the
 dam at the outlet of Lake Tahoe, Boca Reservoir, Prosser Creek Reservoir,
 Martis Reservoir, and Stampede Reservoir; and
 (t) the term `1948 Tripartite Agreement' means the agreement between the
 Truckee-Carson Irrigation District, the Nevada State Board of Fish and Game
 Commissioners, and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service regarding
 the establishment, development, operation, and maintenance of Stillwater
 National Wildlife Refuge and Management Area, dated November 26, 1948.
SEC. 204. INTERSTATE ALLOCATION.
 (a) Carson River-
 (1) The interstate allocation of waters of the Carson River and its
 tributaries represented by the Alpine decree is confirmed.
 (2) The allocations confirmed in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
 not be construed as precluding, foreclosing, or limiting the assertion of
 any additional right to the waters of the Carson River or its tributaries
 which were in existence under applicable law as of January 1, 1989, but
 are not recognized in the Alpine decree. The allocation made in paragraph
 (1) of this subsection shall be modified to accommodate any such additional
 rights, and such additional rights, if established, shall be administered
 in accordance with the terms of the Alpine decree; except that the total
 amount of such additional allocations shall not exceed 1,300 acre-feet per
 year by depletion for use in the State of California and 2,131 acre-feet
 per-year by depletion for use in the State of Nevada. This paragraph shall
 not be construed to allow any increase in diversions from the Carson River
 or its tributaries beyond those in existence on December 31, 1992.
 (3) If, on or after the date of enactment of this title, all or any portion
 of the effluent imported from the Lake Tahoe basin into the watershed of
 the Carson River in California is discontinued by reason of a change in the
 place of the disposal of such effluent, including underground disposal, to
 the Truckee River basin or the Lake Tahoe basin, in a manner which results
 in increasing the available supply of water in the Nevada portion of the
 Truckee River basin, the allocation to California of the water of the
 West Fork of the Carson River and its tributaries for use in the State of
 California shall be augmented by an amount of water which may be diverted
 to storage, except that such storage:
 (A) shall not interfere with other storage or irrigation rights of Segments
 4 and 5 of the Carson River, as defined in the Alpine decree;
 (B) shall not cause significant adverse effects to fish and wildlife;
 (C) shall not exceed 2,000 acre-feet per year, or the quantity by which
 the available annual supply of water to the Nevada portion of the Truckee
 River basin is increased, whichever is less; and
 (D) shall be available for irrigation use in that or subsequent years,
 except that the cumulative amount of such storage shall not exceed 2,000
 acre-feet in any year.
 (4) Storage specified by paragraph (3) of this subsection shall compensate
 the State of California for any such discontinuance as referred to in such
 paragraph: Provided, That the augmentation authorized by such paragraph
 shall be used only on lands having appurtenant Alpine decree rights. Use of
 effluent for the irrigation of lands with appurtenant Alpine decree rights
 shall not result in the forfeiture or abandonment of all or any part of such
 appurtenant Alpine decree rights, but use of such wastewater shall not be
 deemed to create any new or additional water rights. Nothing in this title
 shall be construed as prohibiting the use of all or any portion of such
 effluent on any lands within the State of California. Any increased water
 delivered to the Truckee River shall only be available to satisfy existing
 rights under the Orr Ditch decree or, as appropriate, to augment inflows
 to Pyramid Lake.
 (5) Nothing in this title shall foreclose the right of either State to study,
 either jointly or individually, the use of Carson River surface water,
 which might otherwise be lost to beneficial use, to enable conjunctive use
 of groundwater. For purposes of this paragraph, beneficial use shall include
 the use of water on wetlands or wildlife areas within the Carson River basin,
 as may be permitted under State law.
 (6) Nothing in this title shall preclude the State of Nevada, agencies of the
 State of Nevada, private entities, or individuals from constructing storage
 facilities within the Carson River basin, except that such storage facilities
 shall be constructed and operated in accordance with all applicable State
 and Federal laws and shall not result in the inundation of any portion of
 the East Fork of the Carson River within California.
 (7) The right of any water right owner to seek a change in the beneficial
 use of water from irrigation to storage for municipal and industrial
 uses or other beneficial uses, as determined by applicable State law,
 is unaffected by this title. Water stored for municipal and industrial
 uses may be diverted to storage in a given year and held for municipal and
 industrial uses in that year or subsequent years. Such changes and storage
 shall be in accordance with the Alpine decree and applicable State laws.
 (8) Interbasin transfers of Carson River water shall be allowed only as
 provided by applicable State law.
 (b) Lake Tahoe-
 (1) Total annual gross diversions for use within the Lake Tahoe basin from
 all natural sources, including groundwater, and under all water rights
 in the basin shall not exceed 34,000 acre-feet per year. From this total,
 23,000 acre-feet per year are allocated to the State of California for use
 within the Lake Tahoe basin and 11,000 acre-feet per year are allocated to
 the State of Nevada for use within the Lake Tahoe basin. Water allocated
 pursuant to this paragraph may, after use, be exported from the Lake Tahoe
 basin or reused.
 (2) Total annual gross diversions for use allocated pursuant to paragraph
 (1) of this subsection shall be determined in accordance with the following
 conditions:
 (A) Water diverted and used to make snow within the Lake Tahoe basin shall
 be charged to the allocation of each State as follows:
 (i) the first 600 acre-feet used in California each year and the first
 350 acre-feet used each year in Nevada shall not be charged to the gross
 diversion allocation of either State;
 (ii) where water from the Lake Tahoe basin is diverted and used to make snow
 in excess of the amounts specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph, the
 percentage of such diversions chargeable to the gross diversion allocations
 of each State shall be specified in the Operating Agreement; and
 (iii) the provisions of paragraph 204(b)(1) notwithstanding, criteria
 for charging incidental runoff, if any, into the Carson River basin or
 the Truckee River basin, including the amount and basin to be charged,
 from use of water in excess of the amount specified in clause (i) of this
 subparagraph, shall be specified in the Operating Agreement. The amounts
 of such water, if any, shall be included in each State's report prepared
 pursuant to paragraph 204(d)(1) of this title.
 (B) Unmetered diversion or extraction of water by residences shall, for
 the purpose of calculating the amount of either State's gross diversion,
 be conclusively presumed to utilize a gross diversion of four-tenths of
 one acre-foot per residence per year.
 (C) Where water is diverted by a distribution system, as defined in clause
 (iii) of this subparagraph, the amount of such water that shall be charged
 to the gross diversion allocation of either California or Nevada shall be
 measured as follows:
 (i) where a water distribution system supplies any municipal, commercial,
 and/or industrial delivery points (not including fire hydrants, flushing
 or cleaning points), any one of which is not equipped with a water meter,
 the gross diversion attributed to that water distribution system shall be
 measured at the point of diversion or extraction from the source; or
 (ii) where all municipal, commerical, and industrial delivery points
 (not including fire hydrants, flushing or cleaning points) within a water
 distribution system are equipped with a water meter, the gross diversion
 attributed to that water distribution system may be measured as the sum of
 all amounts of water supplied to each such delivery point, provided there
 is in effect for such water distribution system a water conservation and
 management plan. Such plan may be either an individual, local plan or an
 area-wide, regional, or basin-wide plan, except that such plan must be
 reviewed and found to be reasonable under all relevant circumstances by
 the State agency responsible for administering water rights, or any other
 entity delegated such responsibility under State law. Such plan must be
 reviewed every five years by the agency which prepared it, and implemented
 in accordance with its adopted schedule, and shall include all elements
 required by applicable State law and the following:
 (a) an estimate of past, current, and projected water use and, to the extent
 records are available, a  segregation of those uses between residential,
 industrial, and governmental uses;
 (b) identification of conservation measures currently adopted and in practice;
 (c) a description of alternative conservation measures, including leak
 detection and prevention and reduction in unaccounted for water, if any,
 which would improve the efficiency of water use, with an evaluation of the
 costs, and significant environmental and other impacts of such measures;
 (d) a schedule of implementation for proposed actions as indicated by
 the plan;
 (e) a description of the frequency and magnitude of supply deficiencies,
 including conditions of drought and emergency, and the ability to meet
 short-term deficiencies;
 (f) an evaluation of management of water system pressures and peak demands;
 (g) an evaluation of incentives to alter water use practices, including
 fixture and appliance retrofit programs;
 (h) an evaluation of public information and educational programs to promote
 wise use and eliminate waste;
 (i) an evaluation of changes in pricing, rate structure, and regulations; and
 (j) an evaluation of alternative water management practices, taking into
 account economic and non-economic factors (including environmental, social,
 health, and customer impact), technological factors, and incremental costs
 of additional supplies.
 (iii) As used in this subparagraph, the term `water distribution system' means
 a point or points of diversion from a water supply source or sources, together
 with associated piping, which serve a number of indentifiable delivery points:
 Provided, That the distribution system is not operationally interconnected
 with other distribution systems (except for emergency cross-ties) which
 are served from other points of diversion. An agency serving municipal and
 industrial water may have more than one water distribution system.
 (iv) If a program for the review of water conservation and management plans
 as provided in clause (ii) of this subparagraph is not in effect in that
 portion of the Lake Tahoe basin within a State, all gross diversions within
 such State shall be measured at the point of diversion.
 (D) For the purpose of this subsection, water inflow and infiltration to
 sewer lines shall not be considered a diversion of water, and such water
 shall not be charged to the gross diversion allocation of either State.
 (E) Regulation of streamflow for the purpose of preserving or enhancing
 instream beneficial uses shall not be charged to the gross diversion
 allocation of either State.
 (3) The transbasin diversions from the Lake Tahoe basin in Nevada and
 California identified in this paragraph may be continued, to the extent that
 such diversions are recognized as vested or perfected rights under the laws
 of the State where each diversion is made. Unless otherwise provided in
 this subsection, such diversions are in addition to the other allocations
 made by this subsection. Such transbasin diversions are the following:
 (A) diversion of a maximum of 3,000 acre-feet per year from Marlette Lake
 for use in Nevada;
 (B) diversion of a maximum of 561 acre-feet per year from Lake Tahoe for
 use in Nevada as set forth in Nevada Permit to Appropriate Water No. 23017,
 except that such diversion shall count against the allocation to Nevada
 made by this subsection;
 (C) diversion of water from Echo Lake for use in California, pursuant to
 rights vested under California law; and
 (D) diversion of water from North Creek as set forth in the State of Nevada
 Certificate of Appropriation of Water No. 4217.
The transbasin diversions identified in subparagraphs (A), (C), and (D)
of this paragraph may be transferred, for use only in the State where the
recognized transbasin diversion exists, by lease of the right of use or
by conveyance of the right, to the extent to which the right is vested or
has been perfected. Any such transfer shall be subject to the applicable
laws of the State in which the right is vested or perfected. The transbasin
diversion described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph may be transferred
in accordance with State law. With the exception of the transbasin diversion
described in subparagraph (B), all water made available for use within
the Lake Tahoe basin as a result of any such transfer shall not be charged
against the allocations made by this section, and such water may be depleted.
 (c) Truckee River-
 (1) There is allocated to the State of California the right to divert or
 extract, or to utilize any combination thereof, within the Truckee River
 basin in California the gross amount of 32,000 acre-feet of water per year
 from all natural sources, including both surface and groundwater, in the
 Truckee River basin subject to the following terms and conditions:
 (A) maximum annual diversion of surface supplies shall not exceed 10,000
 acre-feet; except that all diversions of surface supplies for use within
 California shall be subject to the right to water for use on the Pyramid
 Lake Indian Reservation in amounts as provided in Claim Nos. 1 and 2 of
 the Orr Ditch decree, and all such diversions initiated after the date of
 enactment of this title shall be subject to the right of the Sierra Pacific
 Power Company or its successor to divert forty (40) cubic feet per second
 of water for municipal, industrial, and domestic use in the Truckee Meadows
 in Nevada, as such right is more particularly described in Article V of
 the Truckee River Agreement;
 (B) all new wells drilled after the date of enactment of this title shall
 be designed to minimize any short-term reductions of surface streamflows
 to the maximum extent feasible;
 (C) any use within the State of Nevada of any Truckee River basin groundwater
 with a point of extraction within California shall be subordinate to existing
 and future uses in California, and any such use of water in Nevada shall
 cease to the extent that it causes extractions to exceed safe yield;
 (D) except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the extraction and use
 of groundwater pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to all terms
 and conditions of California law;
 (E) determination of safe yield of any groundwater basin in the Truckee
 River basin in California shall be made by the United States Geological
 Survey in accordance with California law;
 (F) water shall not be diverted from within the Truckee River basin in
 California for use in California outside the Truckee River basin;
 (G) if the Tahoe-Truckee Sanitation Agency or its successor (hereafter
 `TTSA') changes in whole or in part the place of disposal of its treated
 wastewater to a place outside the area between Martis Creek and the Truckee
 River below elevation 5800 NGVD Datum, or changes the existing method of
 disposing of its wastewater, which change in place or method of disposal
 reduces the amount or substantially changes the timing of return flows to
 the Truckee River of the treated wastewater, TTSA shall:
 (i) acquire or arrange for the acquisition of preexisting water rights to
 divert and use water of the Truckee River or its tributaries in California
 or Nevada and discontinue the diversion and use of water at the preexisting
 point of diversion and place of use under such rights in a manner legally
 sufficient to offset such reduction in the amount of return flow or change
 in timing, and California's Truckee River basin gross diversion allocation
 shall continue to be charged the amount of the discontinued diversion; or
 (ii) in compliance with California law, extract and discharge into the
 Truckee River or its tributaries an amount of Truckee River basin groundwater
 in California sufficient to offset such reduction or change in timing,
 subject to the following conditions:
 (a) extraction and discharge of Truckee River Basin groundwater for purposes
 of this paragraph shall comply with the terms and conditions of subparagraphs
 204(c)(1) (B) and (D) and shall not be deemed use of Truckee River basin
 groundwater within the State of Nevada within the meaning of subparagraph
 204(c)(1)(D); and
 (b) California's Truckee River basin gross diversion allocation shall
 be charged immediately with the amount of groundwater discharged and,
 when California's Truckee River Basin gross diversion allocation equals
 22,000 acre-feet or when the total of any reductions resulting from the
 changes in the place or method of disposal exceed 1000 acre-feet, whichever
 occurs first, the California Truckee River basin gross diversion allocation
 shall thereafter be charged with an additional amount of water required to
 compensate for the return flows which would otherwise have accrued to the
 Truckee River basin from municipal and industrial use of the discharged
 groundwater. In no event shall the total of California's Truckee River
 gross diversions and extractions exceed 32,000 acre-feet.
 (iii) For purposes of this paragraph, the existing method of disposal shall
 include, in addition to underground leach field disposal, surface spray
 or sprinkler infiltration of treated wastewater on the site between Martis
 Creek and the Truckee River referred to in this subsection.
 (iv) The provisions of this paragraph requiring the acquisition of water
 rights or the extraction and discharge of groundwater to offset reductions
 in the amount or timing of return flow to the Truckee River shall also apply
 to entities other than TTSA that may treat and dispose of wastewater within
 the California portion of the Truckee River basin, but only if and to the
 extent that the treated wastewater is not returned to the Truckee River or
 its tributaries, as to timing and amount, substantially as if the wastewater
 had been treated and disposed of by TTSA in its existing place of disposal
 and by its existing method of disposal. The provisions of this paragraph
 shall not apply to entities treating and disposing of the wastewater from
 less than eight dwelling units.
 (H) All uses of water for commercial, irrigated agriculture within the
 Truckee River basin within California initiated after the date of enactment
 of this title shall not impair and shall be junior and subordinate to
 all beneficial uses in Nevada, including, but not limited to, the use of
 water for the maintenance and preservation of the Pyramid Lake fishery. As
 used in this provision, the term `commercial, irrigated agriculture' shall
 include traditional commercial irrigated farming operations but shall not
 include the following uses: irrigated golf courses and other recreational
 facilities, commercial nurseries, normal silvicultural activities other than
 commercial tree farms, irrigation under riparian rights on land irrigated at
 any time prior to the date of enactment of this title, lawns and ornamental
 shrubbery on parcels which include commercial, residential, governmental,
 or public buildings, and irrigated areas of two acres or less on parcels
 which include a residence.
 (I) Water diverted within the Truckee River basin and used to make snow
 shall be charged to California's Truckee River allocation as follows:
 (i) the first 225 acre-feet used in California each year shall not be
 charged to the gross diversion allocation;
 (ii) where water from the Truckee River basin is diverted and used to make
 snow in excess of the amounts specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph,
 the percentage of such diversions chargeable to such allocation shall be
 specified in the Operating Agreement; and
 (iii) the provision of subparagraph 204(c)(1)(F) notwithstanding, criteria
 for charging incidental runoff, if any, into the Lake Tahoe basin, including
 the amount and basin to be charged, from use of water in excess of the
 amount specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph, shall be specified
 in the Operating Agreement. The amounts of such water, if any, shall be
 included in each State's report prepared pursuant to paragraph 204(d)(1).
 (J) Unmetered diversion or extraction of water by residences, shall, for
 the purpose of calculating the amount of California's gross diversion,
 be conclusively presumed to utilize a gross diversion of four-tenths of
 one acre-foot per residence per year.
 (K) For the purposes of this subsection, water inflow and infiltration
 to sewer lines is not a diversion of water, and such water shall not be
 charged to California's Truckee River basin allocation.
 (2) There is additionally allocated to California the amount of water decreed
 to the Sierra Valley Water Company by judgment in the case of United States of
 America v. Sierra Valley Water Company, United States District Court for the
 Northern District of California, Civil No. 5597, as limited by said judgment.
 (3) There is allocated to the State of Nevada all water in excess of the
 allocations made in paragraphs 204(c) (1) and (2) of this title.
 (4) The right to water for use on the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation in the
 amounts provided in Claim Nos. 1 and 2 of the Orr Ditch decree is recognized
 and confirmed. In accordance with and subject to the terms of the Orr Ditch
 decree and applicable law, the United States, acting for and on behalf of the
 Pyramid Lake Tribe, and with the agreement of the Pyramid Lake Tribe, or the
 Pyramid Lake Tribe shall have the right to change points of diversion, place,
 means, manner, or purpose of use of the water so decreed on the reservation.
 (d) Compliance-
 (1) Compliance with the allocations made by this section and with other
 provisions of this section applicable to each State shall be assured by each
 State. With the third quarter following the end of each calendar year, each
 State shall publish a report of water use providing information necessary
 to determine compliance with the terms and conditions of this section.
 (2) The United States District Courts for the Eastern District of California
 and the District of Nevada shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any
 claims by any aggrieved party against the State of California, State of
 Nevada, or any other party where such claims allege failure to comply with
 the allocations or any other provision of this section. Normal rules of venue
 and transfers of cases between Federal courts shall remain in full force and
 effect. Each State, by accepting the allocations under this section, shall
 be deemed to have waived any immunity from the jurisdiction of such courts.
 (e) FORFEITURE OR ABANDONMENT- The provisions of this section shall not
 be interpreted to alter or affect the applicability of the law of each
 State regarding the forfeiture for nonuse or abandonment of any water
 right established in accordance with State law, nor shall the forfeiture
 for nonuse or abandonment of water rights under the applicable law of each
 State affect the allocations to each State made by this title.
 (f) Interstate Transfers-
 (1) Nothing in this title shall prevent the interstate transfer of water
 or water rights for use within the Truckee River basin, subject to the
 following provisions:
 (A) Each such interstate transfer shall comply with all State laws applicable
 to transfer of water or water rights, including but not limited to State
 laws regulating change in point of diversion, place of use, and purpose of
 use of water, except that such laws must apply equally to interstate and
 intrastate transfers.
 (B) Use of water so transferred shall be charged to the allocation of the
 State wherein use of water was being made prior to the transfer.
 (C) Subject to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, in addition to the
 application of State laws intended to prevent injury to other lawful users
 of water, each State may, to the extent authorized by State law, deny or
 condition a proposed interstate transfer of water or water rights having a
 source within the Truckee River basin where the State agency responsible for
 administering water rights finds, on the basis of substantial evidence that
 the transfer would have substantial adverse impacts on the environment or
 overall economy of the area from which the use of the water or water right
 would be transferred.
 (D) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the jurisdiction
 of any court to review any action taken pursuant to this paragraph.
 (2) The jurisdiction of the Alpine court to administer, inter alia, interstate
 transfers of water or water rights on the Carson River under the Alpine
 decree, pursuant to jurisdiction reserved therein, including any amendment
 or supplement thereto, is confirmed. Each State may intervene of right in
 any proceeding before the Alpine court wherein the reserved jurisdiction
 of that court is invoked with respect to an interstate transfer of water or
 water rights, and may report to the court findings or decisions concerning
 the proposed change which have been made by the State agency responsible
 for administering water rights under any State law applicable to transfers
 or change in the point of diversion, purpose of use, or place of use of water.
 (3) This subsection shall not be construed to authorize the State of
 California or the State of Nevada to deny or condition a transfer application
 made by the United States or its agencies if such denial or conditioning
 would be inconsistent with any clear congressional directive.
 (g) USE OF WATER BY THE UNITED STATES- Use of water by the United States of
 America or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or by any Indian Tribe
 shall be charged to the allocation of the State wherein the use is made,
 except as otherwise provided in subsection (f) of this section.
 (h) COURT DECREES- Nothing in this section shall be construed as modifying
 or terminating any court decree, or the jurisdiction of any court.
 (i) PLACE OF USE TO DETERMINE ALLOCATION- Water diverted or extracted in
 one State for use in the other shall be charged to the allocation under
 this section of the State in which the water is used, except as otherwise
 provided in subsection (f) of this section.
 (j) APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW- Nothing in this section shall be construed
 to alter the applicability of State law or procedures to the water allocated
 to the States hereunder.
SEC. 205. TRUCKEE RIVER WATER SUPPLY MANAGEMENT.
 (a) Operating Agreement-
 (1) The Secretary shall negotiate an operating agreement (hereafter `Operating
 Agreement') with the State of Nevada and the State of California, after
 consultation with such other parties as may be designated by the Secretary,
 the State of Nevada or the State of California.
 (2) The Operating Agreement shall provide for the operation of the Truckee
 River reservoirs and shall ensure that the reservoirs will be operated to:
 (A) satisfy all applicable dam safety and flood control requirements;
 (B) provide for the enhancement of spawning flows available in the Lower
 Truckee River for the Pyramid Lake fishery in a manner consistent with the
 Secretary's responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act, as amended;
 (C) carry out the terms, conditions, and contingencies of the Preliminary
 Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement. Mitigation
 necessary to reduce or avoid significant adverse environmental effects,
 if any, of the implementation of the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as
 modified by the Ratification Agreement, including instream beneficial uses of
 water within the Truckee River basin, shall be provided through one or  more
 mitigation agreements which shall be negotiated and executed by the parties
 to the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification
 agreement and the appropriate agencies of the States of Nevada and California;
 (D) ensure that water is stored in and released from Truckee River reservoirs
 to satisfy the exercise of water rights in conformance with the Orr Ditch
 decree and Truckee River General Electric decree, except for those rights
 that are voluntarily relinquished by the parties to the Preliminary Settlement
 Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement, or by any other persons
 or entities, or which are transferred pursuant to State law; and
 (E) minimize the Secretary's costs associated with operation and maintenance
 of Stampede Reservoir.
 (3) The Operating Agreement may include, but is not limited to, provisions
 concerning the following subjects:
 (A) administration of the Operating Agreement, including but not limited
 to establishing or designating an agency or court to oversee operation of
 the Truckee River and Truckee River reservoirs;
 (B) means of assuring compliance with the provisions of the Preliminary
 Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement and the
 Operating Agreement;
 (C) operations of the Truckee River system which will not be changed;
 (D) operations and procedures for use of Federal facilities for the purpose
 of meeting the Secretary's responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act,
 as amended;
 (E) methods to diminish the likelihood of Lake Tahoe dropping below its
 natural rim and to improve the efficient use of Lake Tahoe water under
 extreme drought conditions;
 (F) procedures for management and operations at the Truckee River reservoirs;
 (G) procedures for operation of the Truckee River reservoirs for instream
 beneficial uses of water within the Truckee River basin;
 (H) operation of other reservoirs in the Truckee River basin to the extent
 that owners of affected storage rights become parties to the Operating
 Agreement; and
 (I) procedures and criteria for implementing California's allocation of
 Truckee River water.
 (4) To enter into effect, the Operating Agreement shall be executed by the
 Secretary, the State of Nevada, and the State of California and shall be
 submitted to the Orr Ditch court and the Truckee River General Electric
 court for approval of any necessary modifications in the provisions of the
 Orr Ditch decree or the Truckee River General Electric decree. Other affected
 parties may be offered the opportunity to execute the Operating Agreement.
 (5) When an Operating Agreement meeting the requirements of this subsection
 has been approved by the Secretary, the State of Nevada, and the State of
 California, the Secretary, pursuant to title 5 of the  United States Code,
 shall promulgate the Operating Agreement, together with such additional
 measures as have been agreed to by the Secretary, the State of Nevada, and
 the State of California, as the exclusive Federal regulations governing the
 Operating Agreement. The Secretary and the other signatories to the Operating
 Agreement shall, if necessary, develop and implement a plan to mitigate for
 any significant adverse environmental impacts resulting from the Operating
 Agreement. Any subsequent changes to the Operating Agreement must be adopted
 and promulgated in the same manner as the original Operating Agreement. Any
 changes which affect the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified
 by the Ratification Agreement must also be approved by the signatories
 thereto. Judicial review of any such promulgation of the Operating Agreement
 may be had by any aggrieved party in the  United States District Court for
 the Eastern District of California or the  United States District Court
 for District of Nevada. A request for review must be filed not later than
 90 days after the promulgation of the Operating Agreement becomes final,
 and by a person who participated in the administrative proceedings leading
 to the final promulgation. The scope of such review shall be limited to the
 administrative record and the standard of review shall be that prescribed
 in 5  U.S.C. 706(2)(A)-(D): Provided, That the limits on judicial review
 in this paragraph shall not apply to any claim based on the provisions of
 the Endangered Species Act, as amended.
 (6) The Secretary shall take such other actions as are necessary to implement
 the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification
 Agreement and to implement the Operating Agreement, including entering
 into contracts for the use of space in Truckee River reservoirs for the
 purposes of storing or exchanging water, subject to the preconditions that
 the Sierra Pacific Power Company and the Secretary shall have executed a
 mutually satisfactory agreement for payment by Sierra-Pacific Power Company
 of appropriate amounts for the availability and use of storage capacity in
 Stampede Reservoir and other reservoirs.
 (7) As provided in the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the
 Ratification Agreement, firm and non-firm municipal and industrial credit
 water and the 7,500 acre-feet of fishery credit water in Stampede Reservoir
 to be available under worse than critical drought conditions shall be used
 only to supply municipal and industrial needs when drought conditions or
 emergency or repair conditions exist, or as may be required to be converted
 to fishery credit water. None of these quantities of water shall be used to
 serve normal year municipal and industrial needs except when an emergency
 or repair condition exists.
 (8) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Preliminary Settlement
 Agreement as modifed by the Ratification Agreement, all of the fishery
 credit water established thereunder shall be used by the  United States
 solely for the benefit of the Pyramid Lake fishery.
 (9) In negotiating the Operating Agreement, the Secretary shall satisfy the
 requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act and regulations issued
 to implement the provisions thereof. The Secretary may not become a party
 to the Operating Agreement if the Secretary determines that the effects of
 such action, together with cumulative effects, are likely to jeopardize the
 continued existence of any endangered or threatened species or result in
 the destruction or adverse modification of any designated critical habitat
 of such species.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF WASHOE PROJECT FACILITIES, TRUCKEE RIVER
 STORAGE FACILITIES, AND LAKE TAHOE DAM AND RESERVOIR-
 (1) The Secretary is authorized to use Washoe Project facilities, Truckee
 River Storage Project facilities, and Lake Tahoe Dam and Reservoir for the
 storage of non-project water to fulfill the purposes of this title, including
 the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement
 and the Operating Agreement. The Secretary shall collect appropriate charges
 for such uses.
 (2) Payments received by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection and
 paragraph 205(a)(6) shall be credited annually first to pay the operation
 and maintenance costs of Stampede Reservoir, then covered into the Lahontan
 Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish and Wildlife Fund created pursuant to subsection
 206(f) of this title, with funds not needed for those purposes, if any,
 credited to the Reclamation Fund.
 (3) The Secretary is authorized to enter into an interim agreement with the
 Sierra Pacific Power Company and Pyramid Lake Tribe to store water owned by
 Sierra Pacific Power Company in Stampede Reservoir, except that the amount
 of such storage shall not exceed 5,000 acre-feet on September 1 of any year,
 such agreement shall be superseded by the Preliminary Settlement as modified
 by the Ratification Agreement  and the Operating Agreement upon the entry
 into effect of those agreements.
 (c) RELEASE OF WASHOE PROJECT REPAYMENT OBLIGATION- The Secretary is released
 from any obligation to secure payment for the costs of constructing Washoe
 Project facilities, other than the power plant, including those specified in
 the Act of August 1, 1956, 70 Stat. 775, and under Federal reclamation laws,
 and such costs are hereby made non-reimbursable. Authority to construct a
 reservoir at the Watasheamu site, together with other necessary works for
 impoundment, diversion, and delivery of water, generation and transmission
 of hydroelectric power, and drainage of lands as conferred to the Secretary
 in the Act of August 1, 1956, 70 Stat. 775, is hereby revoked.
SEC. 206. WETLANDS PROTECTION.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION TO PURCHASE WATER RIGHTS-
 (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed, in conjunction with the State
 of Nevada and such other parties as may provide water and water rights for
 the purposes of this section, to acquire by purchase or other means water and
 water rights, with or without the lands to which such rights are appurtenant,
 and to transfer, hold, and exercise such water and water rights and related
 interests to sustain, on a long-term average, approximately 25,000 acres of
 primary wetland habitat within the Lahontan Valley wetlands in accordance
 with the following provisions of this subsection:
 (A) water right acquired under this subsection shall, to the maximum extent
 practicable, be used for direct application to such wetlands and shall not
 be sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of except as provided by the
 National Wildlife Refuge Administration Act and for the benefit of fish
 and wildlife within the Lahontan Valley;
 (B) the Secretary shall select from any water rights acquired pursuant to
 this subsection those water rights or portions thereof, if not all, that
 can be transferred to the wetlands referenced in this subsection consistent
 with subsection 209(b) of this title; and
 (C) in implementing this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with the
 State of Nevada and affected interests. Those water rights or portions
 thereof, if not all, which the Secretary selects for transfer shall then
 be transferred in accordance with applicable court decrees and State law,
 and shall be used to apply water directly to wetlands. No water rights shall
 be purchased, however, unless the Secretary expects that the water rights
 can be so transferred and applied to direct use to a substantial degree.
 (2) Acquisition of water rights and related interests pursuant to this
 subsection shall be subject to the following conditions:
 (A) water right purchases shall be only from willing sellers, but the
 Secretary may target purchases in areas deemed by the Secretary to be most
 beneficial to such a purchase program;
 (B) water rights acquired by the Secretary shall be managed by the Secretary
 after consultation with the State of Nevada and affected interests, except
 that any water rights acquired for Fallon Indian Reservation wetlands shall
 be managed by the Secretary in consultation with the Fallon Tribe; and
 (C) prior to acquiring any water or water rights in the State of California
 for the Lahontan Valley wetlands, the Secretary shall first consult with
 the Governor of California and shall prepare a record of decision on the
 basis of such consultations.
 (3) The Secretary is authorized to:
 (A) use, modify, or extend, on a non-reimbursable basis, Federal water
 diversion, storage, and conveyance systems to deliver water to wetlands
 referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection, including the Fernley
 Wildlife Management Area;
 (B) reimburse non-Federal entities for reasonable and customary costs
 for operation and maintenance of the Newlands Project associated with the
 delivery of water in carrying out the provisions of this subsection; and
 (C) enter into renewable contracts for the payment of reasonable and customary
 costs for operation and maintenance of the Newlands Project associated with
 the delivery of water acquired by the Secretary to benefit the Lahontan Valley
 wetlands. The contracts shall be for a term not exceeding 40 years. Any
 such contract shall provide that upon the failure of the Secretary to pay
 such charges, the United States shall be liable for their payment and other
 costs provided for in applicable provisions of the contract, subject to
 the availability of appropriations.
 (4) Consistent with fulfillment of this subsection and not as a precondition
 thereto, the Secretary shall study and report on the social, economic, and
 environmental effects of the water rights purchase program authorized by
 this subsection and the water management measures authorized by subsection
 206(c). This study may be conducted in coordination with the studies
 authorized by paragraph 207(c)(5) and subsection 209(c) of this title,
 and shall be reported to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources,
 Environment and Public Works, and Appropriations of the Senate, and the
 Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Merchant Marine and Fisheries,
 and Appropriations of the House of Representatives not later than three
 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) EXPANSION OF STILLWATER NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE-
 (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall manage
 approximately 77,520 acres of Federal land in the State of Nevada, as depicted
 upon a map entitled `Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge,' dated July 16,
 1990, and available for inspection in appropriate offices of the United States
 Fish and Wildlife Service, as a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System.
 (2) The lands identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be known as
 the Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge and shall be managed by the Secretary
 through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for the purposes of:
 (A) maintaining and restoring natural biological diversity within the refuge;
 (B) providing for the conservation and management of fish and wildlife and
 their habitats within the refuge;
 (C) fulfilling the international treaty obligations of the United States
 with respect to fish and wildlife; and
 (D) providing opportunities for scientific research, environmental education,
 and fish and wildlife oriented recreation.
 (3) The Secretary shall administer all lands, waters, and interests therein
 transferred under this title in accordance with the provisions of the National
 Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966, as amended, except that
 any activity provided for under the terms of the 1948 Tripartite Agreement
 may continue under the terms of that agreement until its expiration date,
 unless such agreement is otherwise terminated. The Secretary may utilize
 such additional statutory authority as may be available to the Secretary
 for the conservation and development of wildlife and natural resources,
 interpretive education, and outdoor recreation as the Secretary deems
 appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title.
 (4) The Secretary is authorized to take such actions as may be necessary
 to prevent, correct, or mitigate for adverse water quality and fish and
 wildlife habitat conditions attributable to agricultural drain water
 originating from lands irrigated by the Newlands Project, except that
 nothing in this subsection shall be construed to preclude the use of the
 lands referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection for Newlands Project
 drainage purposes. Such actions, if taken with respect to drains located
 on the Fallon Indian Reservation, shall be taken after consultation with
 the Fallon Tribe.
 (5) Not later than November 26, 1997, after consultation with the State
 of Nevada and affected local interests, the Secretary shall submit to the
 Congress recommendations, if any, concerning:
 (A) revisions in the boundaries of the Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge
 as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Stillwater National
 Wildlife Refuge, and the provisions of subsection 206(a) of this section;
 (B) transfer of any other United States Bureau of Reclamation withdrawn
 public lands within existing wildlife use areas in the Lahontan Valley to
 the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for addition to the National
 Wildlife Refuge System; and
 (C) identification of those lands currently under the jurisdiction of the
 United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the Lahontan Valley that no longer
 warrant continued status as units of the National Wildlife Refuge System,
 with recommendations for their disposition.
 (c) WATER USE, NAVAL AIR STATION, FALLON, NEVADA-
 (1) Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this title, the
 Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Secretary, shall undertake a
 study to develop land management plans or measures to achieve dust control,
 fire abatement and safety, and foreign object damage control on those
 lands owned by the United States within the Naval Air Station at Fallon,
 Nevada, in a manner that, to the maximum extent practicable, reduce direct
 surface deliveries of water. Water saved or conserved shall be defined
 as reduced project deliveries relative to the maximum annual headgate
 delivery entitlement associated with recently irrigated water-righted Navy
 lands. Recently irrigated water-righted Navy lands shall be determined by
 the Secretary of the Navy in consultation with the Secretary and the State
 of Nevada.
 (2) The Secretary of the Navy shall promptly select and implement land
 management plans or measures developed by the study described in paragraph
 (1) of this subsection upon determining that water savings can be made
 without impairing the safety of operations at Naval Air Station, Fallon.
 (3) All water no longer used and water rights no longer exercised by the
 Secretary of the Navy as a result of the implementation of the modified land
 management plan or measures specified by this subsection shall be managed
 by the Secretary for the benefit of fish and wildlife resources referenced
 in sections 206 and 207 of this title: Provided, That,
 (A) as may be required to fulfill the Secretary's responsibilities under the
 Endangered Species Act, as amended, the Secretary shall manage such water and
 water rights primarily for the conservation of the Pyramid Lake fishery and
 in a manner which is consistent with the Secretary's responsibilities under
 the Endangered Species Act, as amended, and the requirements of applicable
 operating criteria and procedures for the Newlands Project; and
 (B) the Secretary may manage such water or transfer temporarily or permanently
 some or all of the water rights no longer exercised by the Secretary of
 the Navy for the benefit of the Lahontan Valley wetlands so long as such
 management or transfers are consistent with applicable operating criteria
 and procedures.
 (4) The Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Secretary of
 Agriculture and other interested parties, shall fund and implement a
 demonstration project and test site for the cultivation and development
 of low-precipitation grasses, shrubs, and other native or appropriate
 high-desert plant species, including the development of appropriate soil
 stabilization and land management techniques, with the goal of restoring
 previously irrigated farmland in the Newlands Project area to a stable and
 ecologically appropriate dryland condition.
 (5) The Secretary shall reimburse appropriate non-Federal entities for
 reasonable and customary operation and maintenance costs associated with
 delivery of the water that comes under the Secretary's management pursuant
 to this subsection.
 (6) In carrying out the provisions of this subsection, the Secretary of the
 Navy and the Secretary shall comply with all applicable provisions of State
 law and fulfill the Federal trust obligation to the Pyramid Lake Tribe and
 the Fallon Tribe.
 (d) STATE COST-SHARING- The Secretary is authorized to enter into an
 agreement with the State of Nevada for use by the State of not less than $9
 million of State funds for water and water rights acquisitions and other
 protective measures to benefit Lahontan Valley wetlands. The Secretary's
 authority under subsection 206(a) is contingent upon the State of Nevada
 making such sums available pursuant to the terms of the agreement referenced
 in this subsection.
 (e) TRANSFER OF CARSON LAKE AND PASTURE- The Secretary is authorized to
 convey to the State of Nevada Federal lands in the area known generally
 as the `Carson Lake and Pasture,' as depicted on the map entitled `Carson
 Lake Area,' dated July 16, 1990, for use by the State as a State wildlife
 refuge. Prior to and as a condition of such transfer, the Secretary and the
 State of Nevada shall execute an agreement, in consultation with affected
 local interests, including the operator of the Newlands Project, ensuring
 that the Carson Lake and Pasture shall be managed in a manner consistent
 with applicable international agreements and designation of the area as a
 component of the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network. The Secretary
 shall retain a right of reverter under such conveyance if the terms of the
 agreement are not observed by the State. The official map shall be on file
 with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Carson Lake and Pasture
 shall be eligible for receipt of water through Newlands Project facilities.
 (f) Lahontan Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish and Wildlife Fund-
 (1) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States the
 `Lahontan Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish and Wildlife Fund' which shall be
 available for deposit of donations from any source and funds provided under
 subsections 205 (a) and (b), 206(d), and subparagraph 208(a)(2)(C), if any,
 of this title.
 (2) Moneys deposited into this fund shall be available for appropriation to
 the Secretary for fish and wildlife programs for Lahontan Valley consistent
 with this section and for protection and restoration of the Pyramid Lake
 fishery consistent with plans prepared under subsection 207(a) of this
 title. The Secretary shall endeavor to distribute benefits from this fund
 on an equal basis between the Pyramid Lake fishery and the Lahontan Valley
 wetlands, except that moneys deposited into the fund by the State of Nevada
 or donated by non-Federal entities or individuals for express purposes shall
 be available only for such purposes and may be expended without further
 appropriation, and funds deposited under subparagraph 208(a)(2)(C) shall
 only be available for the benefit of the Pyramid Lake fishery and may be
 expended without further appropriation.
 (g) INDIAN LAKES AREA- The Secretary is authorized to convey to the State
 of Nevada or Churchill County, Nevada, Federal lands in the area generally
 known as the Indian Lakes area, as depicted on the map entitled `Indian Lakes
 Area,' dated July 16, 1990, pursuant to an agreement between the Secretary
 and the State of Nevada or Churchill County, Nevada, as appropriate, for
 the purposes of fish and wildlife, and recreation. Any activity provided
 under the terms of the 1948 Tripartite Agreement may continue under the
 terms of that agreement until its expiration date, unless such agreement
 is otherwise terminated. The official map shall be on file with the United
 States Fish and Wildlife Service.
SEC. 207. CUI-UI AND LAHONTAN CUTTHROAT TROUT RECOVERY AND ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.
 (a) RECOVERY PLANS- Pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, as amended, the
 Secretary shall expeditiously revise, update, and implement plans for the
 conservation and recovery of the cui-ui and Lahontan cutthroat trout. Such
 plans shall be completed and updated from time to time as appropriate in
 accordance with the Endangered Species Act, as amended, and shall include
 all relevant measures necessary to conserve and recover the species. Such
 plans and any amendments and revisions thereto shall take into account and
 be implemented in a manner consistent with the allocations of water to the
 State of Nevada and the State of California made under section 204 of this
 title, the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification
 Agreement, and the Operating Agreement, if and when those allocations and
 agreements enter into effect.
 (b) TRUCKEE RIVER REHABILITATION-
 (1) The Secretary of the Army, in consultation with and with the assistance
 of the Pyramid Lake Tribe, State of Nevada, Environmental Protection Agency,
 the Secretary, and other interested parties, is authorized and directed to
 incorporate into its ongoing reconnaissance level study of the Truckee River,
 a study of the rehabilitation of the lower Truckee River to and including
 the river terminus delta at Pyramid Lake, for the benefit of the Pyramid
 Lake fishery. Such study shall analyze, among other relevant factors,
 the feasibility of:
 (A) restoring riparian habitat and vegetative cover;
 (B) stabilizing the course of the Truckee River to minimize erosion;
 (C) improving spawning and migratory habitat for the cui-ui;
 (D) improving spawning and migratory habitat for the Lahontan cutthroat
 trout; and
 (E) improving or replacing existing facilities, or creating new facilities, to
 enable the efficient passage of cui-ui and Lahontan cutthroat trout through
 or around the delta at the mouth of the Truckee River, and to upstream
 reaches above Derby Dam, to obtain access to upstream spawning habitat.
 (2) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Army
 such funds as are necessary to supplement the ongoing reconnaissance level
 study, referenced in paragraph (1), to address and report on the activities
 and facilities described in that paragraph.
 (c) ACQUISITION OF WATER RIGHTS-
 (1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire water and water rights, with or
 without the lands to which such rights are appurtenant, and to transfer,
 hold, and exercise such water and water rights and related interests
 to assist the conservation and recovery of the Pyramid Lake fishery in
 accordance with the provisions of this subsection. Water rights acquired
 under this subsection shall be exercised in a manner consistent with the
 Operating Agreement and the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by
 the Ratification Agreement and, to the maximum extent practicable, used for
 the benefit of the Pyramid Lake fishery and shall not be sold, exchanged,
 or otherwise disposed of except to the benefit of the Pyramid Lake fishery.
 (2) Acquisition of water rights and related interests pursuant to this
 subsection shall be subject to the following conditions:
 (A) water rights acquired must satisfy eligibility criteria adopted by
 the Secretary;
 (B) water right purchases shall be only from willing sellers, but the
 Secretary may target purchases in areas deemed by the Secretary to be most
 beneficial to such a purchase program;
 (C) prior to acquiring any water or water rights in the State of California
 for the Pyramid Lake fishery, the Secretary shall first consult with the
 Governor of California and prepare a record of decision on the basis of
 such consultation;
 (D) all water rights shall be transferred in accordance with any applicable
 State law; and
 (E) water rights acquired by the Secretary shall be managed by the Secretary
 in consultation with the Pyramid Lake Tribe and affected interests.
 (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as limiting or affecting
 the authority of the Secretary to acquire water and water rights under
 other applicable laws.
 (4) The Secretary is authorized to reimburse non-Federal entities for
 reasonable and customary costs for operation and maintenance of the Newlands
 Project associated with the delivery of water in carrying out the provisions
 of this subsection.
 (5) Consistent with fulfillment of this section and not as a precondition
 thereto, the Secretary shall study and report on the social, economic, and
 environmental effects of the water rights purchase program authorized by
 this section. This study may be conducted in coordination with the studies
 authorized by paragraph 206(a)(4) and subsection 209(c) of this title,
 and shall be reported to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources,
 Environment and Public Works, and Appropriations of the Senate, and the
 Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Merchant Marine and Fisheries,
 and Appropriations of the House of Representatives not later than three
 years after the date of enactment of this title.
 (d) USE OF STAMPEDE AND PROSSER RESERVOIRS-
 (1) The rights of the United States to store water in Stampede Reservoir shall
 be used by the Secretary for the conservation of the Pyramid Lake fishery,
 except that such use must be consistent with the Preliminary Settlement
 Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement, the Operating Agreement,
 and the mitigation agreement specified in subparagraph 205(a)(1)(C) of
 this title.
 (2) The rights of the United States to store water in Prosser Creek
 Reservoir shall be used by the Secretary as may be required to restore and
 maintain the Pyramid Lake fishery pursuant to the Endangered Species Act,
 as amended, except that such use must be consistent with the Tahoe-Prosser
 Exchange Agreement, the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by
 the Ratification Agreement, the Operating Agreement, and the mitigation
 agreement specified in subparagraph 205(a)(1)(C) of this title.
 (3) Nothing in this subsection shall prevent exchanges of such water or the
 use of the water stored in or released from these reservoirs for coordinated
 non-consumptive purposes, including recreation, instream beneficial uses,
 and generation of hydroelectric power. Subject to the Secretary's obligations
 to use water for the Pyramid Lake fishery, the Secretary is authorized to
 use storage capacity in the Truckee River reservoirs, including Stampede and
 Prosser Creek reservoirs, for storage of non-project water, including, but
 not limited to, storage of California's Truckee River basin surface water
 allocation, through negotiation of appropriate provisions for storage of
 such water in the Operating Agreement. To the extent it is not necessary for
 the Pyramid Lake fishery, the Secretary may allow Truckee River reservoir
 capacity dedicated to Washoe Project water to be used for exchanges of
 water or water rights, and to enable conjunctive use. In carrying out the
 provisions of this subsection, the Secretary shall comply with all applicable
 provisions of State law.
 (e) OFFSETTING FLOWS- Additional flows in the Truckee River and to Pyramid
 Lake resulting from the implementation of subsection 206(c) of this title are
 intended to offset any reductions in those flows which may be attributable
 to the allocations to California or Nevada under section 204 of this title
 or to the waivers in sections 3 and 21 of article II of the Preliminary
 Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement.
SEC. 208. PYRAMID LAKE FISHERIES AND DEVELOPMENT FUNDS.
 (a) Funds Established-
 (1) There are hereby established within the Treasury of the United States
 the `Pyramid Lake Paiute Fisheries Fund' and `Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic
 Development Fund'.
 (2) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Pyramid Lake Paiute
 Fisheries Fund $25,000,000.
 (A) The principal of the Pyramid Lake Paiute Fisheries Fund shall be
 unavailable for withdrawal.
 (B) Interest earned on the Pyramid Lake Paiute Fisheries Fund shall be
 available to the Pyramid Lake Tribe only for the purposes of operation
 and maintenance of fishery facilities at Pyramid Lake, excluding Marble
 Bluff Dam and Fishway, and for conservation of the Pyramid Lake fishery in
 accordance with plans prepared by the Pyramid Lake Tribe in consultation
 with and the concurrence of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and
 approved by the Secretary. Of interest earned annually on the principal, 25
 percent per year, or an amount which, in the sole judgment of the Secretary
 of the Treasury, is sufficient to maintain the principal of the fund at
 $25,000,000 in 1990 constant dollars, whichever is less, shall be retained
 in the fund as principal and shall not be available for withdrawal. Deposits
 of earned interest in excess of that amount may be made at the discretion
 of the Pyramid Lake Tribe, and all such deposits and associated interest
 shall be available for withdrawal.
 (C) All sums deposited in, accruing to, and remaining in the Pyramid Lake
 Paiute Fishery Fund shall be invested by the Secretary and the Secretary of
 the Treasury in interest-bearing deposits and securities in accordance with
 the Act of June 24, 1938, 52 Stat. 1037. Interest earnings not expended,
 added to principal, or obligated by the Pyramid Lake Tribe in the year in
 which such earnings accrue to the fund or in the four years that immediately
 follow shall be credited to the fund established under subsection 206(f)
 of this title.
 (D) Subject to subparagraph (E) of this paragraph, the Secretary and the
 Secretary of the Treasury shall allocate and make available to the Pyramid
 Lake Tribe such eligible moneys from the Pyramid Lake Fishery Fund as are
 requested by the Pyramid Lake Tribe to carry out plans developed under
 subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
 (E) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury shall not disburse
 moneys from the Pyramid Lake Paiute Fishery Fund until such time as the
 following conditions have been met:
 (i) The Pyramid Lake Tribe has released any and all claims of any kind
 whatsoever against the United States for damages to the Pyramid Lake
 fishery resulting from the Secretary's acts or omissions prior to the date
 of enactment of this title; and
 (ii) The Pyramid Lake Tribe has assumed financial responsibility for
 operation and maintenance of the fishery facilities located at Pyramid Lake
 for the benefit of the Pyramid Lake fishery, excluding the Marble Bluff
 Dam and Fishway.
 (3) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic
 Development Fund $40,000,000 in five equal annual installments in the 1993,
 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 fiscal years.
 (A) The principal and interest of the Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic Development
 Fund shall be available for tribal economic development only in accordance
 with a plan developed by the Pyramid Lake Tribe in consultation with
 the Secretary. The objectives of the plan shall be to develop long-term,
 profit-making opportunities for the Pyramid Lake Tribe and its members, to
 create optimum employment opportunities for tribal members, and to establish
 a high quality recreation area at Pyramid Lake using the unique natural
 and cultural resources of the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation. The plan
 shall be consistent with the fishery restoration goals of section 207 of
 this title. The plan may be revised and updated by the Pyramid Lake Tribe
 in consultation with the Secretary.
 (B) The Pyramid Lake Tribe shall have complete discretion to invest and manage
 the Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic Development Fund, except that no portion of
 the principal shall be used to develop, operate, or finance any form of gaming
 or gambling, except as may be provided by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act,
 Public Law 100-497 (102 Stat. 2467), and the United States shall not bear
 any obligation or liability regarding the investment, management, or use
 of such funds that the Pyramid Lake Tribe chooses to invest, manage, or use.
 (C) If the Pyramid Lake Tribe so requests, all sums deposited in, accruing
 to, and remaining in the Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic Development Fund
 shall be invested by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury in
 interest-bearing deposits and securities in accordance with the Act of June
 24, 1938, 52 Stat. 1037. All such interest shall be added to the Pyramid
 Lake Paiute Economic Development Fund.
 (D) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury shall allocate and
 make available to the Pyramid Lake Tribe such moneys from the Pyramid
 Lake Economic Development Fund as are requested by the Pyramid Lake Tribe,
 except that no disbursements shall be made to the Pyramid Lake Tribe unless
 and until the Pyramid Lake Tribe adopts and submits to the Secretary the
 economic development plan described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph,
 and section 204, the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the
 Ratification Agreement, and the Operating Agreement enter into effect in
 accordance with the terms of subsection 210(a) of this title.
 (4) Under no circumstances shall any part of the principal of the funds
 established under this section be distributed to members of the Pyramid
 Lake Tribe on a per capita basis.
 (5) If, and to the extent that any portion of the sum authorized to be
 appropriated in paragraph 208(a)(2) is appropriated after fiscal year
 1992, or in a lesser amount, there shall be deposited in the Pyramid
 Lake Paiute Fisheries Fund, subject to appropriations, in addition to the
 full contribution to the Pyramid Lake Paiute Fisheries Fund, an adjustment
 representing the interest income as determined by the Secretary in his sole
 discretion that would have been earned on any unpaid amount had the amount
 authorized in paragraph 208(a)(2) been appropriated in full for fiscal
 year 1992.
 (6) If and to the extent that any portion of the sums authorized to be
 appropriated in paragraph 208(a)(3) are appropriated after fiscal years
 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997, or in lesser amounts than provided by
 paragraph 208(a)(3), there shall be deposited in the Pyramid Lake Paiute
 Economic Development Fund, subject to appropriations, in addition to the
 full contributions to the Pyramid Lake Paiute Economic Development Fund, an
 adjustment representing the interest income as determined by the Secretary
 in his sole discretion that would have been earned on any unpaid amounts
 had the amounts authorized in paragraph 208(a)(3) been appropriated in full
 for fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997.
SEC. 209. NEWLANDS PROJECT IMPROVEMENT.
 (a) Expansion of Authorized Purposes-
 (1) In addition to the existing irrigation purpose of the Newlands Reclamation
 Project, the Secretary is authorized to operate and maintain the project
 for the purposes of:
 (A) fish and wildlife, including endangered and threatened species;
 (B) municipal and industrial water supply in Lyon and Churchill counties,
 Nevada, including the Fallon Indian Reservation;
 (C) recreation;
 (D) water quality; and
 (E) any other purposes recognized as beneficial under the law of the State
 of Nevada.
 (2) Additional uses of the Newlands Project made pursuant to this section
 shall have valid water rights and, if transferred, shall be transferred in
 accordance with State law.
 (b) TRUCKEE RIVER DIVERSIONS- The Secretary shall not implement any provision
 of this title in a manner that would:
 (1) increase diversions of Truckee River water to the Newlands Project over
 those allowed under applicable operating criteria and procedures; or
 (2) conflict with applicable court decrees.
 (c) Project Efficiency Study-
 (1) The Secretary shall study the feasibility of improving the conveyance
 efficiency of Newlands Project facilities to the extent that, within twelve
 years after the date of enactment of this title, on average not less than
 seventy-five percent of actual diversions under applicable operating criteria
 and procedures shall be delivered to satisfy the exercise of water rights
 within the Newlands Project for authorized project purposes.
 (2) The Secretary shall consider the effects of the measures required to
 achieve such efficiency on groundwater resources and wetlands in the Newlands
 Project area. The Secretary shall report the results of such study to the
 Committees on Energy and Natural Resources, Environment and Public Works,
 and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular
 Affairs, Merchant Marine and Fisheries, and Appropriations of the House of
 Representatives not later than three years after the date of enactment of
 this title.
 (d) WATER BANK- The Secretary, in consultation with the State of Nevada and
 the operator of the Newlands Project, is authorized to use and enter into
 agreements to allow water right holders to use Newlands Project facilities
 in Nevada, where such facilities are not otherwise committed or required to
 fulfill project purposes or other Federal obligations, for supplying carryover
 storage of irrigation and other water for drought protection and other
 purposes, consistent with subsections (a) and (b) of this section. The use
 of such water shall be consistent with and subject to applicable State laws.
 (e) RECREATION STUDY- The Secretary, in consultation with the State of Nevada,
 is authorized to conduct a study to identify administrative, operational,
 and structural measures to benefit recreational use of Lahontan Reservoir and
 the Carson River downstream of Lahontan Dam. Such study shall be reported
 to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
 Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives.
 (f) EFFLUENT REUSE STUDY- The Secretary, in cooperation with the Administrator
 of the Environmental Protection Agency, the State of Nevada, and appropriate
 local entities, shall study the feasibility of reusing municipal wastewater
 for the purpose of wetland improvement or creation, or other beneficial
 purposes, in the areas of Fernley, Nevada, the former Lake Winnemucca National
 Wildlife Refuge, and the Lahontan Valley. The Secretary shall coordinate
 such studies with other efforts underway to manage wastewater from the
 Reno and Sparks, Nevada, area and to improve Truckee River and Pyramid Lake
 water quality. Such study shall be reported to the Committees on Energy and
 Natural Resources, Environment and Public Works, and Appropriations of the
 Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Merchant Marine
 and Fisheries, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
 (g) REPAYMENT CANCELLATION- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 the Secretary may cancel all repayment obligations owing to the Bureau of
 Reclamation by the Truckee-Carson Irrigation District. As a precondition
 for the Secretary to cancel such obligations, the Truckee-Carson Irrigation
 District shall agree to collect all such repayment obligations and use such
 funds for water conservation measures. For the purpose of this subsection
 and paragraph 209(h)(2), the term `water conservation measures' shall not
 include repair, modification, or replacement of Derby Dam.
 (h) Settlement of Claims-
 (1) The provisions of subsections 209 (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section
 shall not become effective unless and until the Truckee-Carson Irrigation
 District has entered into a settlement agreement with the Secretary concerning
 claims for recoupment of water diverted in excess of the amounts permitted
 by applicable operating criteria and procedures.
 (2) The provisions of subsection 209(g) of this section shall not become
 effective unless and until the State of Nevada provides not less than
 $4,000,000 for use in implementing water conservation measures pursuant to
 the settlement described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 (3) The Secretary is authorized to expend such sums as may be required to
 match equally the sums provided by the State of Nevada under paragraph (2)
 of this subsection. Such sums shall be available for use only in implementing
 water conservation measures pursuant to the settlement described in paragraph
 (1) of this subsection.
 (i) FISH AND WILDLIFE- The Secretary shall, insofar as is consistent with
 project irrigation purposes and applicable operating criteria and procedures,
 manage existing Newlands Project re-regulatory reservoirs for the purpose
 of fish and wildlife.
 (j) Operating Criteria and Procedures-
 (1) In carrying out the provisions of this title, the Secretary shall act in
 a manner that is fully consistent with the decision in the case of Pyramid
 Lake Paiute Tribe of Indians v. Morton, 354 F. Supp. 252 (D. D.C. 1973).
 (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the operating criteria and
 procedures for the Newlands Reclamation Project adopted by the Secretary
 on April 15, 1988 shall remain in effect at least through December 31,
 1997, unless the Secretary decides, in his sole discretion, that changes
 are necessary to comply with his obligations, including those under the
 Endangered Species Act, as amended. Prior to December 31, 1997, no court
 or administrative tribunal shall have jurisdiction to set aside any of
 such operating criteria and procedures or to order or direct that they be
 changed in any way. All actions taken heretofore by the Secretary under
 any operating criteria and procedures are hereby declared to be valid and
 shall not be subject to review in any judicial or administrative proceeding,
 except as set forth in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
 (3) The Secretary shall henceforth ensure compliance with all of the
 provisions of the operating criteria and procedures referenced in paragraph
 (2) of this subsection or any applicable provision of any other operating
 criteria or procedures for the Newlands Project previously adopted by the
 Secretary, and shall, pursuant to subsection 709(h) or judicial proceeding,
 pursue recoupment of any water diverted from the Truckee River in excess
 of the amounts permitted by any such operating criteria and procedures. The
 Secretary shall have exclusive authority and responsibility to pursue such
 recoupment, except that, if an agreement or order leading to such recoupment
 is not in effect as of December 31, 1997, any party with standing to pursue
 such recoupment prior to enactment of this title may pursue such recoupment
 thereafter. Any agreement or court order between the Secretary and other
 parties concerning recoupment of Truckee River water diverted in violation
 of applicable operating criteria and procedures shall be consistent with the
 requirements of this subsection and the Endangered Species Act, as amended,
 and shall be submitted for the review and approval of the court exercising
 jurisdiction over the operating criteria and procedures for the Newlands
 Project. All interested parties may participate in such review. In any
 recoupment action brought by any party, other than the Secretary, after
 December 31, 1997, the only relief available from any court of the United
 States will be the issuance of a declaratory judgment and injunctive relief
 directing any unlawful user of water to restore the amount of water unlawfully
 diverted. In no event shall a court enter any order in such a proceeding that
 will result in the expenditure of any funds out of the United States Treasury.
SEC. 210. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 (a) Claims Settlement-
 (1) The effectiveness of section 204 of this title, the Preliminary Settlement
 Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement, the Operating Agreement,
 and the Secretary's authority to disburse funds under paragraph 208(a)(3)
 of this title are contingent upon dismissal with prejudice or other final
 resolution, with respect to the parties to the Preliminary Settlement
 Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement and the State of Nevada
 and the State of California, of the following outstanding litigation and
 proceedings:
 (A) Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe v. California, Civ. S-181-378-RAR-RCB, United
 States District Court, Eastern District of California;
 (B) United States v. Truckee-Carson Irrigation District, Civ. No. R-2987-RCB,
 United States District Court, District of Nevada;
 (C) Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe v. Lujan, Civ. S-87-1281-LKK, United States
 District Court, Eastern District of California;
 (D) Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe v. Department of the Navy, Civ. No. R-86-115-BRT
 in the United States District Court, District of Nevada and Docket No. 88-1650
 in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; and
 (E) All pending motions filed by the Tribe in Docket No. E-9530 before the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
 (2) In addition to any other conditions on the effectiveness of this title
 set forth in this title, the provisions of:
 (A) section 204, subsections 206(c), 207 (c) and (d), subparagraph
 208(a)(3)(D), and paragraph 210(a)(3) of this title shall not take effect
 until:
 (i) the agreements and regulations required under section 205 of this title,
 including the Truckee Meadows water conservation plan referenced in the
 Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement,
 enter into effect;
 (ii) the outstanding claims described in paragraph 210(a)(1) have been
 dismissed with prejudice or otherwise finally resolved;
 (B) section 204 of this title, the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as
 modified by the Ratification Agreement, and the Operating Agreement, shall
 not take effect until the Pyramid Lake Tribe's claim to the remaining waters
 of the Truckee River which are not subject to vested or perfected rights
 has been finally resolved in a manner satisfactory to the State of Nevada
 and the Pyramid Lake Tribe; and
 (C) section 204 of this title, the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as
 modified by the Ratification Agreement, the Operating Agreement, and
 subsection 207(d) shall not take effect until the funds authorized in
 paragraph 208(a)(3) of this title have been appropriated.
 (3) On and after the effective date of section 204 of this title, except as
 otherwise specifically provided herein, no person or entity who has entered
 into the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification
 Agreement or the Operating Agreement, or accepted any benefits or payments
 under this legislation, including any Indian Tribe and the States of
 California and Nevada, the  United States and its officers and agencies
 may assert in any judicial or administrative proceeding a claim that is
 inconsistent with the allocations provided in section 204 of this title,
 or inconsistent or in conflict with the operational criteria for the Truckee
 River established pursuant to section 205 of this title. No person or entity
 who does not become a party to the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as
 modified by the Ratification Agreement or the Operating Agreement may assert
 in any judicial or administrative proceeding any claim for water or water
 rights for the Pyramid Lake Tribe, the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, or
 the Pyramid Lake fishery. Any such claims are hereby barred and extinguished
 and no court of the  United States may hear or consider any such claims by
 such persons or entities.
 (b) GENERAL PROVISIONS-
 (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection,
 and to all existing property rights or interests, all of the trust land
 within the exterior boundaries of the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation shall
 be permanently held by the  United States for the sole use and benefit of
 the Pyramid Lake Tribe.
 (2) Anaho Island in its entirety is hereby recognized as part of the Pyramid
 Lake Indian Reservation. In recognition of the consent of the Pyramid Lake
 Tribe evidenced by Resolution No. 19-90 of the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribal
 Council, all of Anaho Island shall hereafter be managed and administered
 by and under the primary jurisdiction of the  United States Fish and
 Wildlife Service as an integral component of the National Wildlife Refuge
 System for the benefit and protection of colonial nesting species and other
 migratory birds. Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge shall be managed by
 the  United States Fish and Wildlife Service in accord with the National
 Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act, as amended, and other applicable
 provisions of Federal law. Consistent with the National Wildlife Refuge
 System Administration Act, as amended, the Director of the  United States
 Fish and Wildlife Service is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements
 with the Pyramid Lake Tribe regarding Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge.
 (3) Subject to the relinquishment by the legislature of the State of Nevada
 of any claim the State of Nevada may have to ownership of the beds and banks
 of the Truckee River within the exterior boundaries of the Pyramid Lake
 Indian Reservation and of Pyramid Lake, those beds and banks are recognized
 as part of the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation and as being held by the
 United States in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Pyramid Lake
 Tribe. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to recognize any right,
 title, or interest of the State of Nevada in those beds and banks which
 it would not otherwise have. No other provision of this title shall be
 contingent on the effectiveness of this subsection.
 (4) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (9) of this subsection, the
 Pyramid Lake Tribe shall have the sole and exclusive authority to establish
 rules and regulations governing hunting, fishing, boating, and all forms
 of water based recreation on all lands within the Pyramid Lake Indian
 Reservation except fee-patented land, provided that the regulation of such
 activities on fee-patented land within the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation
 shall not be affected by this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall
 be deemed to recognize or confer any criminal jurisdiction on the Pyramid
 Lake Tribe or to affect any regulatory jurisdiction of the State of Nevada
 with respect to any other matters.
 (5) The consent of the United States is given to the negotiation and execution
 of an intergovernmental agreement between the Pyramid Lake Tribe and the
 State of Nevada, which agreement may also include Washoe County, Nevada,
 providing for the enforcement by the State of Nevada and Washoe County
 of the rules and regulations referred to in paragraph (4) adopted by the
 Pyramid Lake Tribe governing hunting, fishing, boating, and all forms of
 water based recreation against non-members of the Pyramid Lake Tribe and
 for State courts or other forums of the State of Nevada or its political
 subdivisions to exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction over violations of
 the Pyramid Lake Tribe's rules and regulations allegedly committed by such
 non-members, except as provided by paragraphs (2) and (9) of this subsection.
 (6) The consent of the United States is given to the negotiation and execution
 of an intergovernmental agreement between the Pyramid Lake Tribe and the
 State of Nevada, which agreement may also include Washoe County, Nevada,
 providing for the enforcement of rules and regulations governing hunting,
 fishing, boating and all forms of water based recreation on fee-patented land
 within the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, except as provided by paragraphs
 (2) and (9) of this subsection.
 (7) Nothing in this title shall limit or diminish the Federal Government's
 trust responsibility to any Indian Tribe, except that this provision shall
 not be interpreted to impose any liability on the United States or its
 agencies for any damages resulting from actions taken by the Pyramid Lake
 Paiute Tribe as to which the United States is not a party or with respect
 to which the United States has no supervisory responsibility.
 (8) Subject to the terms, conditions, and contingencies of and relating to the
 Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the Ratification Agreement,
 the United States on its own behalf and in its capacity as trustee to the
 Pyramid Lake Tribe confirms and ratifies the waivers of any right to object
 to the use and implementation of the water supply measures described in
 sections 3 and 21 of article II of the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as
 modified by the Ratification Agreement, and any waivers of sovereign immunity
 given in connection with that agreement or the Operating Agreement, upon
 the entry into effect of the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified
 by the Ratification Agreement.
 (9) Nothing in this title shall be construed as waiving or altering the
 requirements of any Federal environmental or wildlife conservation law,
 including, but not limited to, the Endangered Species Act, as amended,
 including the consultation and reinitiation of consultation responsibilities
 of the Secretary under section 7 of the Act, and the National Environmental
 Policy Act of 1969.
 (10) Nothing in this title shall be construed to create an express or
 implied Federal reserved water right.
 (11) Nothing in this title shall subject the United States or any of its
 agencies or instrumentalities or any Indian Tribe to any State jurisdiction
 or regulation to which they would not otherwise be subject.
 (12) Nothing in this title is intended to abrogate the jurisdiction of or
 required approvals by the Nevada State Engineer or the California State
 Water Resources Control Board.
 (13) Nothing in this title is intended to affect the power of the Orr Ditch
 court or the Alpine court to ensure that the owners of vested and perfected
 Truckee River water rights receive the amount of water to which they are
 entitled under the Orr Ditch decree or the Alpine decree. Nothing in this
 title is intended to alter or conflict with any vested and perfected right of
 any person or entity to use the water of the Truckee River or its tributaries,
 including, but not limited to, the rights of landowners within the Newlands
 Project for delivery of the water of the Truckee River to Derby Dam and for
 the diversion of such waters at Derby Dam pursuant to the Orr Ditch decree
 or any applicable law.
 (14) No single provision or combination of provisions in this title, including
 interstate allocations under section 204, or associated agreements which
 may adversely affect inflows of water to Pyramid Lake shall form the basis
 for additional claims of water to benefit Pyramid Lake, the Pyramid Lake
 fishery, or lands within the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation.
 (15) Nothing in this title shall affect any claim of Federal reserved water
 rights, if any, to the Carson River or its tributaries for the benefit of
 lands within the Fallon Indian Reservation.
 (16) The Secretary, in consultation with the State of Nevada and affected
 local interests, shall undertake appropriate measures to address significant
 adverse impacts, identified by studies authorized by this title, on domestic
 uses of groundwater directly resulting from the water purchases authorized
 by this title.
 (17) It is hereby declared that after August 26, 1935, and prior to the date
 of enactment of this title, there was no construction within the meaning of
 section 23(b) of the Federal Power Act, as amended, at the four run-of-river
 hydroelectric project works owned by Sierra Pacific Power Company and located
 on the Truckee River. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after
 the date of enactment of this title, development of additional generating
 capacity at such project works that is accomplished through replacement
 of turbine generators and increases in effective head shall not constitute
 construction within the meaning of section 23(b) of the Federal Power Act,
 as amended: Provided, That such development may not change the location of or
 increase any existing impoundments and may not require diversions of water in
 excess of existing water rights for such project works: And provided further,
 That the diversions of water for the operation of such project works shall
 be consistent with the Preliminary Settlement Agreement as modified by the
 Ratification Agreement, and the Operating Agreement. The Secretary shall take
 into account the monetary value of this provision to the Sierra Pacific Power
 Company in calculating the storage charge referred to in paragraph 205(a)(6).
 (18) The Secretary is authorized, in accordance with this section and
 applicable provisions of existing law, to exchange surveyed public lands in
 Nevada for interests in fee patented lands, water rights, or surface rights
 to lands within or contiguous to the exterior boundaries of the Pyramid Lake
 Indian Reservation. The values of the lands or interests therein exchanged
 by the Secretary under this paragraph shall be substantially equal, but
 the Secretary is authorized to accept monetary payments from the owners of
 such fee patented lands, water rights, or surface rights as circumstances
 may require in order to compensate for any difference in value. Any such
 payments shall be deposited to the Treasury. The value of improvements on
 land to be exchanged shall be given due consideration and an appropriate
 allowance shall be made therefor in the valuation. Title to lands or any
 interest therein acquired by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection
 shall be taken in the name of the United States in trust for the Pyramid
 Lake Tribe and shall be added to the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation.
 (c) APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZED- There are authorized to be appropriated such
 sums as may be required to implement the provisions of this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.