 
--S.3012--
S.3012
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974 to authorize appropriations
for
fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Independent Safety Board Act
 Amendments of 1990'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 2. Section 309(a) of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974 (49
 App. U.S.C. 1907(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: `There
 are authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of this Act not to exceed
 $32,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991; $38,600,000 for
 the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992; and $38,800,000 for the fiscal year
 ending September 30, 1993, such sums to remain available until expended.'.
EXAMINATION AND TESTING
 SEC. 3. (a) Section 304(b)(2) of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974
 (49 App. U.S.C. 1903(b)(2)) is amended by inserting `vessel,' immediately
 before `vehicle' each place it appears.
 (b) Section 304(b)(2) of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974 (49
 App. U.S.C. 1903(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 sentences: `The Board shall have sole authority to determine the manner in
 which testing will be carried out under this paragraph and under section
 701(c) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, including determining the persons
 who will conduct the test, the type of test which will be conducted, and
 the persons who will witness the test. Such determinations are committed
 to the discretion of the Board and shall be made on the basis of the needs
 of the investigation being conducted by the Board and, where applicable,
 the provisions of this paragraph.'.
COCKPIT VOICE RECORDER RECORDINGS AND TRANSCRIPTIONS
 SEC. 4. Section 306 of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974 (49
 App. U.S.C. 1905) is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting in
 lieu thereof the following:
 `(c) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF COCKPIT VOICE RECORDER RECORDINGS AND
 TRANSCRIPTIONS- (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board
 shall withhold from public disclosure cockpit voice recorder recordings and
 transcriptions, in whole or in part, of oral communications by and between
 flight crew members and ground stations, that are associated with accidents
 or incidents investigated by the Board.
 `(2) Portions of a transcription of oral communications described in
 paragraph (1) which the Board determines relevant and pertinent to the
 accident or incident under investigation shall be made available to the
 public by the Board--
 `(A) if the Board conducts a public hearing with respect to such accident
 or incident, at the time of such hearing; and
 `(B) if the Board does not conduct such a public hearing, at the time when
 a majority of other factual reports regarding the accident or incident is
 placed in the public docket.
 `(3) Nothing in this section shall restrict the Board at any time
 from referring to cockpit voice recorder information in making safety
 recommendations.
 `(d) USE OF COCKPIT VOICE RECORDER RECORDINGS AND TRANSCRIPTIONS IN JUDICIAL
 PROCEEDINGS- (1) Except as provided in this subsection, in a judicial
 proceeding, there shall not be discovery by a party--
 `(A) of portions of cockpit voice recorder transcriptions other than
 such portions made available to the public by the Board under subsection
 (c)(2); and
 `(B) of cockpit voice recorder recordings.
 `(2) Subject to paragraph (4), a court may permit discovery of cockpit voice
 recorder transcriptions by a party if the court, after an in camera review
 of such transcriptions, finds that--
 `(A) the portions of the transcriptions made available to the public under
 subsection (c) do not provide the party with sufficient information for
 the party to receive a fair trial; and
 `(B) discovery of additional portions of transcriptions is necessary to
 provide the party with sufficient information for the party to receive a
 fair trial.
No cockpit voice recorder transcriptions prepared by or under the direction of
the Board, other than portions made available by the Board under subsection
(c), shall be required to be produced for an in camera review, or shall
be subject to discovery, unless the cockpit voice recorder recordings are
not available.
 `(3) Subject to paragraph (4), a court may permit discovery of cockpit voice
 recorder recordings by a party if the court, after an in camera review of
 such recordings, finds that--
 `(A) the portions of transcriptions made available to the public under
 subsection (c) and to the party through discovery under paragraph (2) do
 not provide the party with sufficient information for the party to receive
 a fair trial; and
 `(B) discovery of cockpit voice recorder recordings is necessary to provide
 the party with sufficient information for the party to receive a fair trial.
 `(4) If, under paragraph (2) or (3), there is discovery in a judicial
 proceeding of a cockpit voice recorder recording or any portion of a cockpit
 voice recorder transcription not made available to the public under subsection
 (c)(2), the court shall issue a protective order to limit the use of such
 recording or portion to the judicial proceeding and to prohibit dissemination
 of such recording or portion to any person who does not need access to such
 recording or portion for such proceeding.
 `(5) A court may permit admission of a cockpit voice recorder recording or any
 portion of a cockpit voice recorder transcription not made available to the
 public under subsection (c)(2) into evidence in a judicial proceeding, only
 if the court places such recording or portion under seal to preclude the use
 of such recording or portion for purposes other than for such proceeding.'.
TOXICOLOGICAL TESTING OF TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
 SEC. 5. (a) When the Department of Transportation, including any of its
 agencies, conducts post-accident or post-incident toxicological testing of
 an employee of the Department, specimen collection shall be accomplished
 as soon as practicable after the accident or incident, and the Department
 shall endeavor when feasible to complete such collection within four hours
 after the accident or incident.
 (b) The head of each agency within the Department of Transportation shall
 send to the Office of the Secretary of Transportation a report on the
 circumstances concerning the amount of time required to complete specimen
 collection related to a toxicological test which is conducted on an employee
 within that agency who is reasonably associated with the circumstances of an
 accident or incident within the investigative jurisdiction of the National
 Transportation Safety Board.
 (c) Any failure to comply with the requirements of this section may not
 be asserted, by the subject of such testing, as a claim, cause of action,
 or defense in any administrative or judicial proceeding.
BOARD ACCESS TO TOXICOLOGICAL TESTING RECORDS
 SEC. 6. Section 304(b) of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974
 (49 App. U.S.C. 1903(b)), is amended by redesignating paragraph (11)
 as paragraph (12) and by inserting immediately after paragraph (10) the
 following new paragraph:
 `(11)(A) Notwithstanding section 503(e) of the Act entitled `An Act making
 supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1987,
 and for other purposes', approved July 11, 1987 (5 U.S.C. 7301 note),
 the Board is authorized to obtain from the Secretary of Transportation,
 by written request, and shall be furnished--
 `(i) any report of a confirmed positive toxicological test, verified as
 positive by a medical review officer, which is conducted on an employee of
 the Department of Transportation, including any of its agencies, pursuant
 to post-accident, unsafe practice, or reasonable suspicion toxicological
 testing requirements of the Department, when that employee is reasonably
 associated with the circumstances of an accident or incident within the
 investigative jurisdiction of the Board; and
 `(ii) any laboratory record providing documentation that such test is
 confirmed positive.
 `(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the Board shall maintain in
 confidence and exempt from public disclosure in accordance with section
 552(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code--
 `(i) any laboratory record, made available under subparagraph (A), of a
 confirmed and verified toxicological test which reveals medical use of a
 drug permitted under applicable regulations; and
 `(ii) any medical information provided by the tested employee in connection
 with such test or in connection with a review of such test.
 `(C) The Board may use such a laboratory record for development of any
 evidentiary record in an investigation by the Board of an accident or
 incident if--
 `(i) the fitness of the employee who is the subject of the toxicological
 testing is at issue in the investigation; and
 `(ii) the use of that record is necessary in the development of such
 evidentiary record.'.
ODOMETER MILEAGE DISCLOSURE
 SEC. 7. (a) Section 408(d)(2)(C) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost
 Savings Act (15  U.S.C. 1988(d)(2)(C)) is amended by striking the third
 sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `The rule, consistent
 with the purposes of this Act and the need to facilitate enforcement thereof,
 shall prescribe that the form be issued by the State to the transferee in
 accordance with paragraph (2)(A)(i), shall prescribe that the person granted
 such power of attorney shall retain a copy of such power of attorney and shall
 submit the original back to the State with a copy of the title showing the
 restatement of the mileage, and may prescribe that the State retain the power
 of attorney and the copy of the title for an appropriate period or that the
 State adopt alternative measures consistent with the purposes of this title,
 taking into consideration costs to the State. The rule shall not require that
 a vehicle be titled in the State in which the power of attorney was issued.'.
 (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be effective on the date of
 enactment of this Act and the Secretary of Transportation shall implement
 the amended section by promulgating a revision of existing regulations
 within six months after such effective date. Such rule shall consider the
 need to facilitate normal commercial transactions in the sale or exchange
 of motor vehicles.
REPORT ON LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE TRANSPORTATION
 SEC. 8. Within twelve months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Transportation shall conduct and complete a thorough study
 of and prepare a report to Congress on the transportation of low-level
 radioactive waste, specifically including--
 (1) an evaluation of the feasibility of requiring States that transport waste
 to a regional disposal facility established and operated under an interstate
 compact pursuant to section 4 of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act
 (42  U.S.C. 2021d) to use, to the maximum extent practicable, routes which are
 within the geographic borders of the States that are parties to the compact;
 (2) factual information on the volume of low-level radioactive waste being
 shipped currently and estimates of such shipments for the calendar years
 1991 through 1995;
 (3) a list of the routes proposed to be used for shipment of such waste to
 the disposal facilities operated under such an interstate compact;
 (4) a review of the process for determining and approving such routes;
 (5) a review of the processes for resolving any disputes that may arise,
 between States and between Commissions created by such interstate compacts,
 regarding such routes; and
 (6) identification of the public safety risks associated with possible
 accidents in transporting such waste and of the response plans to be employed
 in the event of a transportation accident.
intercity rail passenger service
 SEC. 9. (a) Section 402(d)(1) of Rail Passenger Service Act (45
 U.S.C. 562(d)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `The Corporation may subsequently convey title or other interest in such
 property to a third party, if such reconveyance is found by the Commission
 to further the purposes of this Act.'.
 (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to any proceeding
 instituted before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act
 (including any such proceeding pending before any Federal court on such
 date of enactment).
COMMUTER RAIL SERVICE
 SEC. 10. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Railroad
 Passenger Corporation shall not discontinue commuter rail service between
 Valparaiso, Indiana and Chicago, Illinois, before May 6, 1991.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.