 
--S.3187--
S.3187
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To address immediate problems affecting environmental cleanup activities.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS.
 Section 119 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
 and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, is amended--
 (1) by deleting the period at the end of subparagraph (B) in subsection
 (e)(2) and inserting `; and';
 (2) by adding at the end of subparagraph (B) of subsection (e)(2) the
 following new subparagraph:
 `(C) any surety who after October 16, 1990, and before January 1, 1993
 provides a bid, performance or payment bond to a response action contractor,
 and begins activities to meet its obligations under such bond, but only in
 connection with such activities or obligations.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(g) Surety Bonds-
 `(1) If under the Miller Act, 40 U.S.C. sections 270a-270f, surety bonds are
 required for any direct Federal procurement of any response action contract,
 they shall be issued in accordance with 40 U.S.C. sections 270a-270d.
 `(2) If under applicable Federal law surety bonds are required for any direct
 Federal procurement of any response action contract, no right of action shall
 accrue on the performance bond issued on such response action contract to
 or for the use of any person other than the obligee named in the bond.
 `(3) If under applicable Federal law surety bonds are required for
 any direct Federal procurement of any response action contract, unless
 otherwise provided for by the procuring agency in the bond, in the event of
 a default, the surety's liability on a performance bond shall be only for
 the cost of completion of the contract work in accordance with the plans
 and specifications less the balance of funds remaining to be paid under the
 contract, up to the penal sum of the bond. The surety shall in no event be
 liable on bonds to indemnify or compensate the obligee for loss or liability
 arising from personal injury or property damage whether or not caused by
 a breach of the bonded contract.
 `(4) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as preempting, limiting,
 superseding, affecting, applying to, or modifying any State laws, regulations,
 requirements, rules, practices or procedures. Nothing in this subsection shall
 be construed as affecting, applying to, modifying, limiting, superseding,
 or preempting any rights, authorities, liabilities, demands, actions, causes
 of action, losses, judgments, claims, statutes of limitation, or obligations
 under Federal or State law, which do not arise on or under the bond.
 `(5) This subsection shall not apply to bonds executed before October 17,
 1990, or after December 31, 1992.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.