 
--S.319--
S.319
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To effect an exchange of lands between the United States Forest Service and
the Salt
Lake City Corporation within the State of Utah, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Salt Lake City Watershed Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) current land ownership patterns in the Northern Canyons of the Wasatch
 Mountains east of Salt Lake City, Utah, unnecessarily impede efficient
 land and water resource management activities by the Forest Service and
 Salt Lake City on their respective lands;
 (2) the Act of September 19, 1914, reserved Federal lands in these canyons
 from mineral entry and set them aside as a municipal water supply reserve
 for the use and benefit of Salt Lake City;
 (3) the 1914 Act further provides for cooperation between the Forest
 Service and Salt Lake City in managing the lands for municipal water supply
 purposes; and
 (4) a consolidation of National Forest lands and Salt Lake City lands in
 the canyon vicinities would be in the public interest and would enhance
 land management and water resource protection opportunities for both Salt
 Lake City and the Forest Service.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are to authorize an exchange of
 National Forest and Salt Lake City lands and interests to consolidate
 ownership and facilitate management, to adjust boundaries of the Wasatch
 National Forest accordingly, and to protect valid existing rights appurtenant
 to lands and interests subject to conveyance under this Act.
SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF LANDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as the
 `Secretary') is authorized and directed to convey certain Federal lands
 and interests managed by the Forest Service within the State of Utah,
 and generally as depicted on the map entitled `Salt Lake City--Wasatch
 National Forest Land Exchange' and dated November 1989, for certain lands
 and interests owned by the Salt Lake City Corporation (hereinafter referred
 to as the `City') as generally depicted on such map. Such map, along with
 a legal description of all lands and interests to be conveyed, shall be on
 file and available for public inspection in the office of the Forest Service,
 United States Department of Agriculture. The Secretary shall convey such
 Federal lands and interests to the City only upon the occurrence of all of
 the following:
 (1) Publication by the Secretary in the Federal Register of a legal
 description of all Federal lands and interests to be conveyed to the City
 pursuant to this Act.
 (2) Publication by the Secretary in the Federal Register of a legal
 description of all City lands and interests to be conveyed to the United
 States pursuant to this Act.
 (3) Written notification by the City to the Secretary that the City accepts
 the provisions of this Act, including subsection (e)(2) and subsection (f).
 (4) Delivery to the Secretary by the City of documents of conveyance of
 the lands and interests to be conveyed by the City.
 (5) Delivery to the City and the Secretary of written approval by the Attorney
 General of the United States of the title to the lands and interests described
 in documents of conveyance submitted by the City within six months of their
 receipt by the Secretary.
 (b) CONFLICTS- Conveyance of Federal lands and interests under this Act
 shall be completed notwithstanding--
 (1) the reservations of the Act of September 19, 1914;
 (2) withdrawals of lands for the Fort Douglas Military Reservation under
 the Executive orders dated September 3, 1867, and June 8, 1896, and under
 the Pickett Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 847); and
 (3) section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976
 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
 (c) ADMINISTRATION- Lands and interests acquired by the United States
 pursuant to this Act shall be added to, and administered as part of, the
 National Forest System under principles of multiple use and sustained yield.
 (d) ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES- The boundaries of the Wasatch National Forest
 shall be adjusted as depicted on the map referred to in subsection (a)
 to reflect the conveyance and acquisition of lands pursuant to this Act.
 (e) Interim Recognition of Existing Rights- Valid existing rights appurtenant
 to lands and interests acquired by the Secretary or acquired by the City
 pursuant to this Act shall be recognized, protected, and managed by the
 acquiring government in accordance with the terms and authorities under
 which such rights were issued until new, similar rights can be issued by
 the acquiring government--
 (1) in the case of lands and interests acquired by the Federal Government, the
 Secretary shall negotiate with holders of valid existing rights appurtenant
 to such lands and interests issued by the City and provide such holders of
 rights new, similar rights under the authority of the Federal Government; and
 (2) in the case of lands and interests acquired by the City, the City will
 negotiate with holders of grazing permits, special use permits (to include
 easements and rights-of-way), or other valid existing rights appurtenant to
 such lands and interests issued by the Federal Government and will provide
 such holders of rights with similar new rights under the authority of
 the City.
 (f) RECOGNITION OF MORMON TRAIL- The City will recognize the designation
 of the Mormon Pioneer National Historic Trail over lands which it acquires
 pursuant to this Act and will manage its lands in a manner consistent with
 such designation.
SEC. 4. RESTRICTIONS.
 (a) RESTRICTIONS ON ADDITIONAL TRANSFER- The lands and interests transferred
 to the City or the United States under this Act shall not be conveyed or
 otherwise transferred to any person or entity other than the United States.
 (b) RESTRICTIONS ON EXPLORATION OR DEVELOPMENT- The lands and interests
 transferred to the City or the United States under this Act shall not
 be subject to any form of mineral, energy, or geothermal exploration
 or development, and shall be used only for purposes consistent with and
 conforming to the reservations and purposes of the Act of September 19, 1914,
 and this Act, except for valid existing rights protected under section 3(e).
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.