 
--S.3237--
S.3237
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to sell certain silver proof
coin sets.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Silver Coin Proof Sets Act'.
SEC. 2. SILVER COIN PROOF SETS.
 Section 5132(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through (5);
 (2) by striking `(2)' in paragraph (4), as redesignated, and inserting
 `(3)'; and
 (3) by inserting the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) In addition to the coins described in paragraph (1), the Secretary
 shall sell annually to the public directly and by mail, sets of proof coins
 minted under paragraphs (1) through (6) of section 5112(a).
 `(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for purposes of this
 paragraph--
 `(i) the coins described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 5112(a)
 shall be made of an alloy of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper; and
 `(ii) all coins minted under this paragraph shall have a mint mark indicating
 the place of manufacture.
 `(C) All coins minted under this paragraph shall be considered to be--
 `(i) numismatic items for purposes of paragraph (1) and section 5111(a)(3);
 and
 `(ii) legal tender, as provided in section 5103.
 `(D) The Secretary shall obtain silver for coins minted under this paragraph
 by purchase from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical
 Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.). At such time as the
 silver stockpile is depleted, the Secretary shall obtain silver for such
 coins by purchase of silver mined from natural deposits in the United
 States or in a territory or possession of the United States not more than
 1 year following the month in which the ore from which it is derived was
 mined. The Secretary shall pay not more than the average world price for
 such silver. The Secretary may issue such regulations as may be necessary
 to carry out this subparagraph.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.