 
--S.3215--
S.3215
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the transfer by lease of a specified naval landing ship dock
to the
Government of Brazil.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO LEASE
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 5, the Secretary  of the Navy is authorized
 to lease the naval landing ship dock Alamo (LSD-33) to the Government of
 Brazil. A lease under this Act may be  renewed.
 (b) APPLICABLE LAW- Such leasing shall be in accordance with chapter 6 of the
 Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2796 et seq.), except that section 62(a)
 of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2796a(a)) shall apply only to renewals of the lease.
SEC. 2. COSTS OF LEASING
 Any expense of the United States in connection with the lease authorized
 by section 1 shall be charged to the Government of Brazil.
SEC. 3. CONSIDERATION FOR LEASE
 Notwithstanding section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b),
 the lease of the ship described in section 1(a) may provide, as part or
 all of the consideration for the lease, for the maintenance, protection,
 repair, or restoration of the ship by the Government of Brazil.
SEC. 4. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY
 The authority granted by section 1(a) shall expire at the end of the 2-year
 period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act unless the lease
 authorized by that section is entered into during that period.
SEC. 5. CONDITION ON AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER
 The Secretary may not exercise the authority granted under section 1(a)
 unless and until the Government of Brazil has provided written assurances
 to the Secretary of State that Brazil is in compliance with the United
 Nations sanctions against Iraq and has  discontinued the export to Iraq of
 all military equipment, materials, and technologies, including the export
 of all nuclear, chemical, and biological warfare equipment, materials, and
 technologies and all missile equipment, materials, and technologies. The
 Secretary of State shall transmit to Congress  a copy of any such  assurances
 received by the Secretary.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.