 
--S.338--
S.338
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to provide for the development
of a trails interpretation center in the city of Council Bluffs, Iowa,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the nineteenth century American westward movement was an important
 cultural event in shaping the postcolonial history of the United States;
 (2) the nineteenth century American westward movement consisted of journeys
 along a system of trails across the American continent by pioneers, explorers,
 religious groups, and scientists; and
 (3) additional recognition and interpretation is appropriate in light of
 the national scope of the nineteenth century American westward movement.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to recognize the system of western trails established in furtherance
 of the National Trails System Act because of their national historic and
 cultural significance; and
 (2) to provide the public with an interpretive facility devoted to the
 vital role of the western trails in the development of the United States.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A TRAILS INTERPRETATION CENTER.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- In furtherance of the purposes of section 7(c) of the
 National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1246(c)), the Secretary of the Interior
 (hereinafter referred to as the `Secretary') is authorized to provide for
 a trails interpretation center (hereinafter referred to as the `center')
 in the city of Council Bluffs, Iowa, for the purpose of interpreting the
 history of development and use in the State of Iowa and the adjacent region
 of the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail, the Mormon Pioneer National
 Historic Trail, and the Oregon National Historic Trail.
 (b) PLAN AND DESIGN- (1) Within 18 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary, after consultation with the Governor of Iowa
 and in cooperation with such other public, municipal, and private entities
 as may be necessary and appropriate, shall complete a plan and design for
 the center, including the following:
 (A) a detailed description of the design of the facility;
 (B) a description of the site;
 (C) the method of acquisition;
 (D) the estimated cost of acquisition, construction, operation and
 maintenance; and
 (E) the manner and extent to which non-Federal entities shall participate
 in the acquisition, construction, operation, and maintenance of the center.
 (2) In the development of the plan and design for the center the Secretary
 shall take into consideration the report and plans prepared by The Western
 Historic Trails, Inc., and shall provide an opportunity for public comment.
 (3) Upon completion, the Secretary shall submit the plan to the Committee
 on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
 (c) IMPLEMENTATION- In order to implement the plan and design under subsection
 (b) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and
 interests in lands by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds,
 or exchange, for the construction of the center authorized in subsection
 (a). Federal funds to carry out this section may only be expended on a
 two-for-one matching basis with non-Federal funds, services, materials,
 or lands, fairly valued as determined by the Secretary, or any combination
 thereof.
 (d) AGREEMENT FOR THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF CENTER- Before undertaking
 the construction of the center, the Secretary shall enter into a binding
 agreement with a qualified non-Federal entity for conveyance by deed or lease
 from the Secretary of any structure or property acquired and developed as
 provided for by this Act. Any such agreement shall provide that--
 (1) the non-Federal entity agree to operate and maintain the center and
 make no major alteration of the structure or grounds without the express
 written authorization of the Secretary;
 (2) a plan of operations shall be submitted that is satisfactory to the
 Secretary;
 (3) the Secretary shall have access to documents relating to the operation
 and maintenance of the center;
 (4) the Secretary shall have the right of access to the center; and
 (5) the United States shall be held harmless from all events arising from
 the operation and maintenance of the center.
 (e) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may
 enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Iowa, the city of
 Council Bluffs, and other public or private entities to provide technical
 assistance with respect to the center.
 (f) SATISFACTION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION RESTRICTIONS- Any
 restrictions, covenants, reversions, limitations, or any other conditions
 imposed by the Economic Development Administration relating to or affecting
 the use, transfer, or other disposition of any land which is conveyed to
 the Secretary for the purpose of developing the center under this section
 shall be extinguished upon the acceptance of such donation by the Secretary.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated not more than $8,400,000 to carry
 out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.