 
--S.358--
S.358
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to change the level, and
preference system for admission, of immigrants to the United States, and to
provide for administrative naturalization, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES IN ACT; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Immigration Act of 1990'.
 (b) REFERENCES IN ACT- Except as specifically provided in this Act, whenever
 in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed as an amendment to or repeal
 of a provision, the reference shall be deemed to be made to the Immigration
 and Nationality Act.
 (c) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; references in Act; table of contents.
TITLE I--IMMIGRANTS
Subtitle A--Worldwide and Per Country Levels
Sec. 101. Worldwide levels.
Sec. 102. Per country levels.
Sec. 103. Treatment of Hong Kong under per country levels.
Sec. 104. Asylee adjustments.
Subtitle B--Preference System
PART 1--Family-Sponsored Immigrants
Sec. 111. Family-sponsored immigrants.
Sec. 112. Transition for spouses and minor children of legalized aliens.
PART 2--Employment-Based Immigrants
Sec. 121. Employment-based immigrants.
Sec. 122. Changes in labor certification process.
Sec. 123. Definitions of managerial capacity and executive capacity.
Sec. 124. Transition for employees of certain United States businesses
operating in Hong Kong.
PART 3--Diversity Immigrants
Sec. 131. Diversity immigrants.
Sec. 132. Diversity transition for aliens who are natives of certain adversely
affected foreign states.
Sec. 133. One-year diversity transition for aliens who have been notified
of availability of NP-5 visas.
Sec. 134. Transition for displaced Tibetans.
Subtitle C--Commission and Information
Sec. 141. Commission on Legal Immigration Reform.
Sec. 142. Statistical information systems.
Subtitle D--Miscellaneous
Sec. 151. Revision of special immigrant provisions relating to religious
workers (C special immigrants).
Sec. 152. Special immigrant status for certain aliens employed at the United
States mission in Hong Kong (D special immigrants).
Sec. 153. Special immigrant status for certain aliens declared dependent on
a juvenile court (J special immigrants).
Sec. 154. Permitting extension of period of validity of immigrant visas for
certain residents of Hong Kong.
Sec. 155. Expedited issuance of Lebanese second and fifth preference visas.
Subtitle E--Effective Dates; Conforming Amendments
Sec. 161. Effective dates.
Sec. 162. Conforming amendments.
TITLE II--NONIMMIGRANTS
Subtitle A--General and Permanent Provisions
Sec. 201. Revision and extension of the visa waiver pilot program for foreign
tourists (B nonimmigrants).
Sec. 202. Denial of crewmember status in the case of certain labor disputes
(D nonimmigrants).
Sec. 203. Limitations on performance of longshore work by alien crewmen
(D nonimmigrants).
Sec. 204. Treaty traders (E nonimmigrants).
Sec. 205. Temporary workers and trainees (H nonimmigrants).
Sec. 206. Intra-company transferees (L nonimmigrants).
Sec. 207. New classification for aliens with extraordinary ability,
accompanying aliens, and athletes and entertainers (O & P nonimmigrants).
Sec. 208. New classification for international cultural exchange programs
(Q nonimmigrants).
Sec. 209. New classification for aliens in religious occupations (R
nonimmigrants).
Subtitle B--Temporary or Limited Provisions
Sec. 221. Off-campus work authorization for students (F nonimmigrants).
Sec. 222. Admission of nonimmigrants for cooperative research, development,
and coproduction projects.
Sec. 223. Establishment of special education exchange visitor program.
Subtitle C--Effective Dates
Sec. 231. Effective dates.
TITLE III--FAMILY UNITY AND TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS
Sec. 301. Family unity.
Sec. 302. Temporary protected status.
Sec. 303. Special temporary protected status for Salvadorans.
TITLE IV--NATURALIZATION
Sec. 401. Administrative naturalization.
Sec. 402. Substituting 3 months residence in INS district or State for 6
months residence in a State.
Sec. 403. Waiver of English language requirement for naturalization.
Sec. 404. Treatment of service in armed forces of a foreign country.
Sec. 405. Naturalization of natives of the Philippines through certain
active-duty service during World War II.
Sec. 406. Public education regarding naturalization benefits.
Sec. 407. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 408. Effective dates and savings provisions.
TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT
Subtitle A--Criminal Aliens
Sec. 501. Aggravated felony definition.
Sec. 502. Shortening period to request judicial review.
Sec. 503. Enhancing enforcement authority of INS officers.
Sec. 504. Custody pending determination of deportability and excludability.
Sec. 505. Elimination of judicial recommendations against deportation.
Sec. 506. Clarification respecting discretionary authority in deportation
proceedings for incarcerated aliens.
Sec. 507. Requiring coordination plan with INS as a condition for receipt of
drug control and system improvement grants under the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968.
Sec. 508. Deportation for attempted violations of controlled substances laws.
Sec. 509. Good moral character definition.
Sec. 510. Report on criminal aliens.
Sec. 511. Limitation on waiver of exclusion for returning permanent residents
convicted of an aggravated felony.
Sec. 512. Authorization of additional immigration judges for deportation
proceedings involving criminal aliens.
Sec. 513. Effect of filing petition for review.
Sec. 514. Extending bar on reentry of aliens convicted of aggravated felonies.
Sec. 515. Asylum in the case of aliens convicted of aggravated felonies.
Subtitle B--Provision Relating to Employer Sanctions
Sec. 521. Elimination of paperwork requirement for recruiters and referrers.
Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Anti-Discrimination
Sec. 531. Dissemination of information concerning anti-discrimination
protections under IRCA and title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Sec. 532. Inclusion of certain seasonal agricultural workers within scope
of anti-discrimination protections.
Sec. 533. Elimination of requirement that aliens file a declaration of
intending to become a citizen in order to file anti-discrimination complaint.
Sec. 534. Anti-retaliation protections.
Sec. 535. Treatment of certain actions as discrimination.
Sec. 536. Conforming civil money penalties for anti-discrimination violations
to those for employer sanctions.
Sec. 537. Period for filing of complaints.
Sec. 538. Special Counsel access to employment eligibility verification forms.
Sec. 539. Additional relief in orders.
Subtitle D--General Enforcement
Sec. 541. Authorizing increase by 1,000 in border patrol personnel.
Sec. 542. Application of increase in penalties to enhance enforcement
activities.
Sec. 543. Increase in fine levels; authority of the INS to collect fines.
Sec. 544. Civil penalties for document fraud.
Sec. 545. Deportation procedures; required notice of deportation hearing;
limitation on discretionary relief.
TITLE VI--EXCLUSION AND DEPORTATION
Sec. 601. Revision of grounds for exclusion.
Sec. 602. Revision of grounds for deportation.
Sec. 603. Conforming amendments.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 701. Battered spouse or child waiver of the conditional residence
requirement.
Sec. 702. Bona fide marriage exception to foreign residence requirement for
marriages entered into during certain immigration proceedings.
Sec. 703. 1-year extension of deadline for filing applications for adjustment
from temporary to permament residence for legalized aliens.
Sec. 704. Commission on Agricultural Workers.
Sec. 705. Immigration Emergency Fund.
TITLE VIII--EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Sec. 801. Educational assistance and training.
TITLE I--IMMIGRANTS
Subtitle A--Worldwide and Per Country Levels
SEC. 101. WORLDWIDE LEVELS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 201 (8 U.S.C. 1151) is amended to read as follows:
`worldwide level of immigration
 `SEC. 201. (a) IN GENERAL- Exclusive of aliens described in subsection (b),
 aliens born in a foreign state or dependent area who may be issued immigrant
 visas or who may otherwise acquire the status of an alien lawfully admitted
 to the United States for permanent residence are limited to--
 `(1) family-sponsored immigrants described in section 203(a) (or who are
 admitted under section 211(a) on the basis of a prior issuance of a visa to
 their accompanying parent under section 203(a)) in a number not to exceed in
 any fiscal year the number specified in subsection (c) for that year, and
 not to exceed in any of the first 3 quarters of any fiscal year 27 percent
 of the worldwide level under such subsection for all of such fiscal year;
 `(2) employment-based immigrants described in section 203(b) (or who are
 admitted under section 211(a) on the basis of a prior issuance of a visa to
 their accompanying parent under section 203(b)), in a number not to exceed
 in any fiscal year the number specified in subsection (d) for that year, and
 not to exceed in any of the first 3 quarters of any fiscal year 27 percent
 of the worldwide level under such subsection for all of such fiscal year; and
 `(3) for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1995, diversity immigrants
 described in section 203(c) (or who are admitted under section 211(a) on
 the basis of a prior issuance of a visa to their accompanying parent under
 section 203(c)) in a number not to exceed in any fiscal year the number
 specified in subsection (e) for that year, and not to exceed in any of the
 first 3 quarters of any fiscal year 27 percent of the worldwide level under
 such subsection for all of such fiscal year.
 `(b) ALIENS NOT SUBJECT TO DIRECT NUMERICAL LIMITATIONS- Aliens described
 in this subsection, who are not subject to the worldwide levels or numerical
 limitations of subsection (a), are as follows:
 `(1)(A) Special immigrants described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section
 101(a)(27).
 `(B) Aliens who are admitted under section 207 or whose status is adjusted
 under section 209.
 `(C) Aliens whose status is adjusted to permanent residence under section
 210, 210A, or 245A.
 `(D) Aliens whose deportation is suspended under section 244(a).
 `(E) Aliens provided permanent resident status under section 249.
 `(2)(A)(i) IMMEDIATE RELATIVES- For purposes of this subsection, the term
 `immediate relatives' means the children, spouses, and parents of a citizen
 of the United States, except that, in the case of parents, such citizens
 shall be at least 21 years of age. In the case of an alien who was the spouse
 of a citizen of the United States for at least 2 years at the time of the
 citizen's death and was not legally separated from the citizen at the time
 of the citizen's death, the alien shall be considered, for purposes of this
 subsection, to remain an immediate relative after the date of the citizen's
 death but only if the spouse files a petition under section 204(a)(1)(A)
 within 2 years after such date and only until the date the spouse remarries.
 `(ii) Aliens admitted under section 211(a) on the basis of a prior issuance
 of a visa to their accompanying parent who is such an immediate relative.
 `(B) Aliens born to an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence
 during a temporary visit abroad.
 `(c) WORLDWIDE LEVEL OF FAMILY-SPONSORED IMMIGRANTS- (1)(A) The worldwide
 level of family-sponsored immigrants under this subsection for a fiscal
 year is, subject to subparagraph (B), equal to--
 `(i) 480,000, minus
 `(ii) the number computed under paragraph (2), plus
 `(iii) the number (if any) computed under paragraph (3).
 `(B)(i) For each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994, 465,000 shall be
 substituted for 480,000 in subparagraph (A)(i).
 `(ii) In no case shall the number computed under subparagraph (A) be less
 than 226,000.
 `(2) The number computed under this paragraph for a fiscal year is the sum
 of the number of aliens described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection
 (b)(2) who were issued immigrant visas or who otherwise acquired the status
 of aliens lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence
 in the previous fiscal year.
 `(3) The number computed under this paragraph for a fiscal year is the
 difference (if any) between the maximum number of visas which may be issued
 under section 203(b) (relating to employment-based immigrants) during the
 previous fiscal year and the number of visas issued under that section
 during that year.
 `(d) WORLDWIDE LEVEL OF EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS- (1) The worldwide
 level of employment-based immigrants under this subsection for a fiscal
 year is equal to--
 `(A) 140,000, plus
 `(B) the number computed under paragraph (2).
 `(2) The number computed under this paragraph for a fiscal year is the
 difference (if any) between the maximum number of visas which may be issued
 under section 203(a) (relating to family-sponsored immigrants) during the
 previous fiscal year and the number of visas issued under that section
 during that year.
 `(e) WORLDWIDE LEVEL OF DIVERSITY IMMIGRANTS- The worldwide level of
 diversity immigrants is equal to 55,000 for each fiscal year.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The item in the table of contents relating to
 section 201 is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 201. Worldwide level of immigration.'.
SEC. 102. PER COUNTRY LEVELS.
 Section 202 (8 U.S.C. 1152) is amended--
 (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a) PER COUNTRY LEVEL-
 `(1) NONDISCRIMINATION- Except as specifically provided in paragraph (2) and
 in sections 101(a)(27), 201(b)(2)(A)(i), and 203, no person shall receive
 any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of
 an immigrant visa because of the person's race, sex, nationality, place of
 birth, or place of residence.
 `(2) PER COUNTRY LEVELS FOR FAMILY-SPONSORED AND EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS-
 Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the total number of immigrant visas made
 available to natives of any single foreign state or dependent area under
 subsections (a) and (b) of section 203 in any fiscal year may not exceed 7
 percent (in the case of a single foreign state) or 2 percent (in the case
 of a dependent area) of the total number of such visas made available under
 such subsections in that fiscal year.
 `(3) EXCEPTION IF ADDITIONAL VISAS AVAILABLE- If because of the application
 of paragraph (2) with respect to one or more foreign states or dependent
 areas, the total number of visas available under both subsections (a) and
 (b) of section 203 for a calendar quarter exceeds the number of qualified
 immigrants who otherwise may be issued such a visa, paragraph (2) shall not
 apply to visas made available to such states or areas during the remainder
 of such calendar quarter.
 `(4) SPECIAL RULES FOR SPOUSES AND CHILDREN OF LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENT
 ALIENS-
 `(A) 75 PERCENT OF MINIMUM 2ND PREFERENCE SET-ASIDE FOR SPOUSES AND CHILDREN
 NOT SUBJECT TO PER COUNTRY LIMITATION-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Of the visa numbers made available under section 203(a) to
 immigrants described in section 203(a)(2)(A) in any fiscal year, 75 percent
 of the 2-A floor (as defined in clause (ii)) shall be issued without regard
 to the numerical limitation under paragraph (2).
 `(ii) 2-A FLOOR DEFINED- In this paragraph, the term `2-A floor' means,
 for a fiscal year, 77 percent of the total number of visas made available
 under section 203(a) to immigrants described in section 203(a)(2) in the
 fiscal year.
 `(B) TREATMENT OF REMAINING 25 PERCENT FOR COUNTRIES SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION
 (e)-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Of the visa numbers made available under section 203(a)
 to immigrants described in section 203(a)(2)(A) in any fiscal year,
 the remaining 25 percent of the 2-A floor shall be available in the case
 of a state or area that is subject to subsection (e) only to the extent
 that the total number of visas issued in accordance with subparagraph (A)
 to natives of the foreign state or area is less than the subsection (e)
 ceiling (as defined in clause (ii)).
 `(ii) SUBSECTION (e) CEILING DEFINED- In clause (i), the term `subsection
 (e) ceiling' means, for a foreign state or dependent area, 77 percent of
 the maximum number of visas that may be made available under section 203(a)
 to immigrants who are natives of the state or area under section 203(a)(2)
 consistent with subsection (e).
 `(C) TREATMENT OF UNMARRIED SONS AND DAUGHTERS IN COUNTRIES SUBJECT TO
 SUBSECTION (e)- In the case of a foreign state or dependent area to which
 subsection (e) applies, the number of immigrant visas that may be made
 available to natives of the state or area under section 203(a)(2)(B) may
 not exceed--
 `(i) 23 percent of the maximum number of visas that may be made available
 under section 203(a) to immigrants of the state or area described in section
 203(a)(2) consistent with subsection (e), or
 `(ii) the number (if any) by which the maximum number of visas that may
 be made available under section 203(a) to immigrants of the state or area
 described in section 203(a)(2) consistent with subsection (e) exceeds the
 number of visas issued under section 203(a)(2)(A),
whichever is greater.
 `(D) LIMITING PASS DOWN FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (e)-
 In the case of a foreign state or dependent area to which subsection (e)
 applies, if the total number of visas issued under section 203(a)(2) exceeds
 the maximum number of visas that may be made available to immigrants of
 the state or area under section 203(a)(2) consistent with subsection (e)
 (determined without regard to this paragraph), in applying paragraphs (3)
 and (4) of section 203(a) under subsection (e)(2) all visas shall be deemed
 to have been required for the classes specified in paragraphs (1) and (2)
 of such section.';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by inserting `RULES FOR CHARGEABILITY- ' after `(b)', and
 (B) by striking `the numerical limitation set forth in the proviso to
 subsection (a) of this section' each place it appears and inserting `a
 numerical level established under subsection (a)(2)';
 (3) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by inserting `CHARGEABILITY FOR DEPENDENT AREAS- ' after `(c)',
 (B) by striking `a special immigrant' and all that follows through `201(b)'
 and inserting `an alien described in section 201(b)', and
 (C) by striking `, and the number' and all that follows through `one
 fiscal year';
 (4) in subsection (d), by inserting `CHANGES IN TERRITORY- ' after `(d)'; and
 (5) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
 `(e) SPECIAL RULES FOR COUNTRIES AT CEILING- If it is determined that the
 total number of immigrant visas made available under subsections (a) and
 (b) of section 203 to natives of any single foreign state or dependent
 area will exceed the numerical limitation specified in subsection (a)(2)
 in any fiscal year, in determining the allotment of immigrant visa numbers
 to natives under subsections (a) and (b) of section 203, visa numbers with
 respect to natives of that state or area shall be allocated (to the extent
 practicable and otherwise consistent with this section and section 203)
 in a manner so that--
 `(1) the ratio of the visa numbers made available under section 203(a)
 to the visa numbers made available under section 203(b) is equal to the
 ratio of the worldwide level of immigration under section 201(c) to such
 level under section 201(d);
 `(2) except as provided in subsection (a)(4), the proportion of the visa
 numbers made available under each of paragraphs (1) through (4) of section
 203(a) is equal to the ratio of the total number of visas made available
 under the respective paragraph to the total number of visas made available
 under section 203(a), and
 `(3) the proportion of the visa numbers made available under each of
 paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 203(b) is equal to the ratio of the
 total number of visas made available under the respective paragraph to the
 total number of visas made available under section 203(b).
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as limiting the number of
visas that may be issued to natives of a foreign state or dependent area
under section 203(a) or 203(b) if there is insufficient demand for visas for
such natives under section 203(b) or 203(a), respectively, or as limiting
the number of visas that may be issued under section 203(a)(2)(A) pursuant
to subsection (a)(4)(A).'.
SEC. 103. TREATMENT OF HONG KONG UNDER PER COUNTRY LEVELS.
 The approval referred to in the first sentence of section 202(b) of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act shall be considered to have been granted,
 effective beginning with fiscal year 1991, with respect to Hong Kong as a
 separate foreign state, and not as a colony or other component or dependent
 area of another foreign state, except that the total number of immigrant
 visas made available to natives of Hong Kong under subsections (a) and (b)
 of section 203 of such Act in each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993
 may not exceed 10,000.
SEC. 104. ASYLEE ADJUSTMENTS.
 (a) INCREASE IN NUMERICAL LIMITATION ON ADJUSTMENT OF ASYLEES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 209(b) (8 U.S.C. 1159(b)) is amended by striking
 `five thousand' and inserting `10,000'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall
 apply to fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1991 and the President is
 authorized, without the need for appropriate consultation, to increase the
 refugee determination previously made under section 207 of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act for fiscal year 1991 in order to make such amendment
 effective for such fiscal year.
 (b) ANNUAL ASYLEE ENUMERATION- Section 207(a) (8 U.S.C. 1157(a)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) In the determination made under this subsection for each fiscal year
 (beginning with fiscal year 1992), the President shall enumerate, with the
 respective number of refugees so determined, the number of aliens who were
 granted asylum in the previous year.'.
 (c) WAIVER OF NUMERICAL LIMITATION FOR CERTAIN CURRENT ASYLEES- The numerical
 limitation on the number of aliens whose status may be adjusted under section
 209(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply to an alien
 described in subsection (d) or to an alien who has applied for adjustment
 of status under such section on or before June 1, 1990.
 (d) ADJUSTMENT OF CERTAIN FORMER ASYLEES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the provisions of section 209(b)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall also apply to an alien--
 (A) who was granted asylum before the date of the enactment of this Act
 (regardless of whether or not such asylum has been terminated under section
 208(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act),
 (B) who is no longer a refugee because of a change in circumstances in a
 foreign state, and
 (C) who was (or would be) qualified for adjustment of status under section
 209(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment
 of this Act but for paragraphs (2) and (3) thereof and but for any numerical
 limitation under such section.
 (2) APPLICATION OF PER COUNTRY LIMITATIONS- The number of aliens who are
 natives of any foreign state who may adjust status pursuant to paragraph
 (1) in any fiscal year shall not exceed the difference between the per
 country limitation established under section 202(a) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act and the number of aliens who are chargeable to that foreign
 state in the fiscal year under section 202 of such Act.
Subtitle B--Preference System
PART 1--FAMILY-SPONSORED IMMIGRANTS
SEC. 111. FAMILY-SPONSORED IMMIGRANTS.
 Section 203 (8 U.S.C. 1153) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as subsections (d) through
 (g), respectively, and
 (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
 `(a) PREFERENCE ALLOCATION FOR FAMILY-SPONSORED IMMIGRANTS- Aliens subject
 to the worldwide level specified in section 201(c) for family-sponsored
 immigrants shall be allotted visas as follows:
 `(1) UNMARRIED SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF CITIZENS- Qualified immigrants who
 are the unmarried sons or daughters of citizens of the United States shall
 be allocated visas in a number not to exceed 23,400, plus any visas not
 required for the class specified in paragraph (4).
 `(2) SPOUSES AND UNMARRIED SONS AND UNMARRIED DAUGHTERS OF PERMANENT RESIDENT
 ALIENS- Qualified immigrants--
 `(A) who are the spouses or children of an alien lawfully admitted for
 permanent residence, or
 `(B) who are the unmarried sons or unmarried daughters (but are not the
 children) of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence,
shall be allocated visas in a number not to exceed 114,200, plus the number
(if any) by which such worldwide level exceeds 226,000, plus any visas not
required for the class specified in paragraph (1); except that not less than
77 percent of such visa numbers shall be allocated to aliens described in
subparagraph (A).
 `(3) MARRIED SONS AND MARRIED DAUGHTERS OF CITIZENS- Qualified immigrants
 who are the married sons or married daughters of citizens of the United
 States shall be allocated visas in a number not to exceed 23,400, plus any
 visas not required for the classes specified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
 `(4) BROTHERS AND SISTERS OF CITIZENS- Qualified immigrants who are the
 brothers or sisters of citizens of the United States, if such citizens are
 at least 21 years of age, shall be allocated visas in a number not to exceed
 65,000, plus any visas not required for the classes specified in paragraphs
 (1) through (3).'.
SEC. 112. TRANSITION FOR SPOUSES AND MINOR CHILDREN OF LEGALIZED ALIENS.
 (a) ADDITIONAL VISA NUMBERS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In addition to any immigrant visas otherwise available,
 immigrant visa numbers shall be available in each of fiscal years 1992,
 1993, and 1994 for spouses and children of eligible, legalized aliens (as
 defined in subsection (c)) in a number equal to 55,000 minus the number
 (if any) computed under paragraph (2) for the fiscal year.
 (2) OFFSET- The number computed under this paragraph for a fiscal year is
 the number (if any) by which--
 (A) the sum of the number of aliens described in subparagraphs (A) and (B)
 of section 201(b)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (or, for fiscal
 year 1992, section 201(b) of such Act) who were issued immigrant visas or
 otherwise acquired the status of aliens lawfully admitted to the United
 States for permanent residence in the previous fiscal year, exceeds
 (B) 239,000.
 (b) ORDER- Visa numbers under this section shall be made available in the
 order in which a petition, in behalf of each such immigrant for classification
 under section 203(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, is filed
 with the Attorney General under section 204 of such Act.
 (c) LEGALIZED ALIEN DEFINED- In this section, the term `legalized alien'
 means an alien lawfully admitted for temporary or permanent residence who
 was provided--
 (1) temporary or permanent residence status under section 210 of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act,
 (2) temporary or permanent residence status under section 245A of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act, or
 (3) permanent residence status under section 202 of the Immigration Reform
 and Control Act of 1986.
PART 2--EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS
SEC. 121. EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 203 (8 U.S.C. 1153) is amended by inserting after
 subsection (a), as inserted by section 111, the following new subsection:
 `(b) PREFERENCE ALLOCATION FOR EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS- Aliens subject
 to the worldwide level specified in section 201(d) for employment-based
 immigrants in a fiscal year shall be allotted visas as follows:
 `(1) PRIORITY WORKERS- Visas shall first be made available in a number not
 to exceed 40,000, plus any visas not required for the classes specified in
 paragraphs (4) and (5), to qualified immigrants who are aliens described
 in any of the following subparagraphs (A) through (C):
 `(A) ALIENS WITH EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY- An alien is described in this
 subparagraph if--
 `(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education,
 business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national
 or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in
 the field through extensive documentation,
 `(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the
 area of extraordinary ability, and
 `(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit
 prospectively the United States.
 `(B) OUTSTANDING PROFESSORS AND RESEARCHERS- An alien is described in this
 subparagraph if--
 `(i) the alien is recognized internationally as outstanding in a specific
 academic area,
 `(ii) the alien has at least 3 years of experience in teaching or research
 in the academic area, and
 `(iii) the alien seeks to enter the United States--
 `(I) for a tenured position (or tenure-track position) within a university
 or institution of higher education to teach in the academic area,
 `(II) for a comparable position with a university or institution of higher
 education to conduct research in the area, or
 `(III) for a comparable position to conduct research in the area with a
 department, division, or institute of a private employer, if the department,
 division, or institute employs at least 3 persons full-time in research
 activities and has achieved documented accomplishments in an academic field.
 `(C) CERTAIN MULTINATIONAL EXECUTIVES AND MANAGERS- An alien is described
 in this subparagraph if the alien, in the 3 years preceding the time of
 the alien's application for classification and admission into the United
 States under this subparagraph, has been employed for at least 1 year by
 a firm or corporation or other legal entity or an affiliate or subsidiary
 thereof and who seeks to enter the United States in order to continue to
 render services to the same employer or to a subsidiary or affiliate thereof
 in a capacity that is managerial or executive.
 `(2) ALIENS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE PROFESSIONS HOLDING ADVANCED DEGREES OR
 ALIENS OF EXCEPTIONAL ABILITY-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Visas shall be made available, in a number not to exceed
 40,000, plus any visas not required for the classes specified in paragraph
 (1), to qualified immigrants who are members of the professions holding
 advanced degrees or their equivalent or who because of their exceptional
 ability in the sciences, arts, or business, will substantially benefit
 prospectively the national economy, cultural or educational interests,
 or welfare of the United States, and whose services in the sciences, arts,
 professions, or business are sought by an employer in the United States.
 `(B) WAIVER OF JOB OFFER- The Attorney General may, when he deems it to
 be in the national interest, waive the requirement of subparagraph (A)
 that an alien's services in the sciences, arts, or business be sought by
 an employer in the United States.
 `(C) DETERMINATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ABILITY- In determining under subparagraph
 (A) whether an immigrant has exceptional ability, the possession of a degree,
 diploma, certificate, or similar award from a college, university, school,
 or other institution of learning or a license to practice or certification
 for a particular profession or occupation shall not by itself be considered
 sufficient evidence of such exceptional ability.
 `(3) SKILLED WORKERS, PROFESSIONALS, AND OTHER WORKERS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Visas shall be made available, in a number not to exceed
 40,000, plus any visas not required for the classes specified in paragraphs
 (1) and (2), to the following classes of aliens who are not described in
 paragraph (2):
 `(i) SKILLED WORKERS- Qualified immigrants who are capable, at the time of
 petitioning for classification under this paragraph, of performing skilled
 labor (requiring at least 2 years training or experience), not of a temporary
 or seasonal nature, for which qualified workers are not available in the
 United States.
 `(ii) PROFESSIONALS- Qualified immigrants who hold baccalaureate degrees
 and who are members of the professions.
 `(iii) OTHER WORKERS- Other qualified immigrants who are capable, at the
 time of petitioning for classification under this paragraph, of performing
 unskilled labor, not of a temporary or seasonal nature, for which qualified
 workers are not available in the United States.
 `(B) LIMITATION ON OTHER WORKERS- Not more than 10,000 of the visas made
 available under this paragraph in any fiscal year may be available for
 qualified immigrants described in subparagraph (A)(iii).
 `(C) LABOR CERTIFICATION REQUIRED- An immigrant visa may not be issued
 to an immigrant under subparagraph (A) until the consular officer is in
 receipt of a determination made by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the
 provisions of section 212(a)(5)(A).
 `(4) CERTAIN SPECIAL IMMIGRANTS- Visas shall be made available, in a number
 not to exceed 10,000, to qualified special immigrants described in section
 101(a)(27) (other than those described in subparagraph (A) or (B) thereof), of
 which not more than 5,000 may be made available in any fiscal year to special
 immigrants described in subclause (II) or (III) of section 101(a)(27)(C)(ii).
 `(5) EMPLOYMENT CREATION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Visas shall be made available, in a number not to exceed
 10,000, to qualified immigrants seeking to enter the United States for the
 purpose of engaging in a new commercial enterprise--
 `(i) which the alien has established,
 `(ii) in which such alien has invested (after the date of the enactment of
 the Immigration Act of 1990) or, is actively in the process of investing,
 capital in an amount not less than the amount specified in subparagraph
 (C), and
 `(iii) which will benefit the United States economy and create full-time
 employment for not fewer than 10 United States citizens or aliens lawfully
 admitted for permanent residence or other immigrants lawfully authorized
 to be employed in the United States (other than the immigrant and the
 immigrant's spouse, sons, or daughters).
 `(B) SET-ASIDE FOR TARGETTED EMPLOYMENT AREAS-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Not less than 3,000 of the visas made available under this
 paragraph in each fiscal year shall be reserved for qualified immigrants
 who establish a new commercial enterprise described in subparagraph (A)
 which will create employment in a targetted employment area.
 `(ii) TARGETTED EMPLOYMENT AREA DEFINED- In this paragraph, the term
 `targetted employment area' means, at the time of the investment, a rural
 area or an area which has experienced high unemployment (of at least 150
 percent of the national average rate).
 `(iii) RURAL AREA DEFINED- In this paragraph, the term `rural area' means
 any area other than an area within a metropolitan statistical area or within
 the outer boundary of any city or town having a population of 20,000 or more
 (based on the most recent decennial census of the United States).
 `(C) AMOUNT OF CAPITAL REQUIRED-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph, the amount
 of capital required under subparagraph (A) shall be $1,000,000. The Attorney
 General, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of
 State, may from time to time prescribe regulations increasing the dollar
 amount specified under the previous sentence.
 `(ii) ADJUSTMENT FOR TARGETTED EMPLOYMENT AREAS- The Attorney General may,
 in the case of investment made in a targetted employment area, specify an
 amount of capital required under subparagraph (A) that is less than (but
 not less than  1/2  of) the amount specified in clause (i).
 `(iii) ADJUSTMENT FOR HIGH EMPLOYMENT AREAS- In the case of an investment
 made in a part of a metropolitan statistical area that at the time of
 the investment--
 `(I) is not a targetted employment area, and
 `(II) is an area with an unemployment rate significantly below the national
 average unemployment rate,
the Attorney General may specify an amount of capital required under
subparagraph (A) that is greater than (but not greater than 3 times) the
amount specified in clause (i).'.
 (b) DETERRING IMMIGRATION-RELATED ENTREPRENEURSHIP FRAUD-
 (1) CONDITIONAL BASIS FOR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS BASED ON ESTABLISHMENT
 OF COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES- Chapter 2 of title II is amended by inserting
 after section 216 the following new section:
`CONDITIONAL PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIEN ENTREPRENEURS,
SPOUSES, AND CHILDREN
 `SEC. 216A. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) CONDITIONAL BASIS FOR STATUS- Notwithstanding any other provision of this
 Act, an alien entrepreneur (as defined in subsection (f)(1)), alien spouse,
 and alien child (as defined in subsection (f)(2)) shall be considered,
 at the time of obtaining the status of an alien lawfully admitted for
 permanent residence, to have obtained such status on a conditional basis
 subject to the provisions of this section.
 `(2) NOTICE OF REQUIREMENTS-
 `(A) AT TIME OF OBTAINING PERMANENT RESIDENCE- At the time an alien
 entrepreneur, alien spouse, or alien child obtains permanent resident status
 on a conditional basis under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall
 provide for notice to such an entrepreneur, spouse, or child respecting
 the provisions of this section and the requirements of subsection (c)(1)
 to have the conditional basis of such status removed.
 `(B) AT TIME OF REQUIRED PETITION- In addition, the Attorney General shall
 attempt to provide notice to such an entrepreneur, spouse, or child, at or
 about the beginning of the 90-day period described in subsection (d)(2)(A),
 of the requirements of subsection (c)(1).
 `(C) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO PROVIDE NOTICE- The failure of the Attorney General
 to provide a notice under this paragraph shall not affect the enforcement
 of the provisions of this section with respect to such an entrepreneur,
 spouse, or child.
 `(b) TERMINATION OF STATUS IF FINDING THAT QUALIFYING ENTREPRENEURSHIP
 IMPROPER-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of an alien entrepreneur with permanent resident
 status on a conditional basis under subsection (a), if the Attorney General
 determines, before the second anniversary of the alien's obtaining the
 status of lawful admission for permanent residence, that--
 `(A) the establishment of the commercial enterprise was intended solely as
 a means of evading the immigration laws of the United States,
 `(B)(i) a commercial enterprise was not established by the alien,
 `(ii) the alien did not invest or was not actively in the process of
 investing the requisite capital; or
 `(iii) the alien was not sustaining the actions described in clause (i) or
 (ii) throughout the period of the alien's residence in the United States, or
 `(C) the alien was otherwise not conforming to the requirements of section
 203(b)(5),
then the Attorney General shall so notify the alien involved and, subject to
paragraph (2), shall terminate the permanent resident status of the alien (and
the alien spouse and alien child) involved as of the date of the determination.
 `(2) HEARING IN DEPORTATION PROCEEDING- Any alien whose permanent resident
 status is terminated under paragraph (1) may request a review of such
 determination in a proceeding to deport the alien. In such proceeding,
 the burden of proof shall be on the Attorney General to establish, by a
 preponderance of the evidence, that a condition described in paragraph (1)
 is met.
 `(c) REQUIREMENTS OF TIMELY PETITION AND INTERVIEW FOR REMOVAL OF CONDITION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In order for the conditional basis established under
 subsection (a) for an alien entrepreneur, alien spouse, or alien child to
 be removed--
 `(A) the alien entrepreneur must submit to the Attorney General, during
 the period described in subsection (d)(2), a petition which requests the
 removal of such conditional basis and which states, under penalty of perjury,
 the facts and information described in subsection (d)(1), and
 `(B) in accordance with subsection (d)(3), the alien entrepreneur must
 appear for a personal interview before an officer or employee of the Service
 respecting the facts and information described in subsection (d)(1).
 `(2) TERMINATION OF PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR FAILURE TO FILE PETITION
 OR HAVE PERSONAL INTERVIEW-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- In the case of an alien with permanent resident status on
 a conditional basis under subsection (a), if--
 `(i) no petition is filed with respect to the alien in accordance with the
 provisions of paragraph (1)(A), or
 `(ii) unless there is good cause shown, the alien entrepreneur fails to
 appear at the interview described in paragraph (1)(B) (if required under
 subsection (d)(3)),
the Attorney General shall terminate the permanent resident status of the
alien as of the second anniversary of the alien's lawful admission for
permanent residence.
 `(B) HEARING IN DEPORTATION PROCEEDING- In any deportation proceeding with
 respect to an alien whose permanent resident status is terminated under
 subparagraph (A), the burden of proof shall be on the alien to establish
 compliance with the conditions of paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B).
 `(3) DETERMINATION AFTER PETITION AND INTERVIEW-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- If--
 `(i) a petition is filed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
 (1)(A), and
 `(ii) the alien entrepreneur appears at any interview described in paragraph
 (1)(B),
the Attorney General shall make a determination, within 90 days of the date
of the such filing or interview (whichever is later), as to whether the facts
and information described in subsection (d)(1) and alleged in the petition
are true with respect to the qualifying commercial enterprise.
 `(B) REMOVAL OF CONDITIONAL BASIS IF FAVORABLE DETERMINATION- If the Attorney
 General determines that such facts and information are true, the Attorney
 General shall so notify the alien involved and shall remove the conditional
 basis of the alien's status effective as of the second anniversary of the
 alien's obtaining the status of lawful admission for permanent residence.
 `(C) TERMINATION IF ADVERSE DETERMINATION- If the Attorney General determines
 that such facts and information are not true, the Attorney General shall so
 notify the alien involved and, subject to subparagraph (D), shall terminate
 the permanent resident status of an alien entrepreneur, alien spouse,
 or alien child as of the date of the determination.
 `(D) HEARING IN DEPORTATION PROCEEDING- Any alien whose permanent resident
 status is terminated under subparagraph (C) may request a review of such
 determination in a proceeding to deport the alien. In such proceeding,
 the burden of proof shall be on the Attorney General to establish, by a
 preponderance of the evidence, that the facts and information described in
 subsection (d)(1) and alleged in the petition are not true with respect to
 the qualifying commercial enterprise.
 `(d) DETAILS OF PETITION AND INTERVIEW-
 `(1) CONTENTS OF PETITION- Each petition under subsection (c)(1)(A) shall
 contain facts and information demonstrating that--
 `(A) a commercial enterprise was established by the alien;
 `(B) the alien invested or was actively in the process of investing the
 requisite capital; and
 `(C) the alien sustained the actions described in subparagraphs (A) and
 (B) throughout the period of the alien's residence in the United States.
 `(2) PERIOD FOR FILING PETITION-
 `(A) 90-DAY PERIOD BEFORE SECOND ANNIVERSARY- Except as provided in
 subparagraph (B), the petition under subsection (c)(1)(A) must be filed
 during the 90-day period before the second anniversary of the alien's
 obtaining the status of lawful admission for permanent residence.
 `(B) DATE PETITIONS FOR GOOD CAUSE- Such a petition may be considered if
 filed after such date, but only if the alien establishes to the satisfaction
 of the Attorney General good cause and extenuating circumstances for failure
 to file the petition during the period described in subparagraph (A).
 `(C) FILING OF PETITIONS DURING DEPORTATION- In the case of an alien who
 is the subject of deportation hearings as a result of failure to file a
 petition on a timely basis in accordance with subparagraph (A), the Attorney
 General may stay such deportation proceedings against an alien pending the
 filing of the petition under subparagraph (B).
 `(3) PERSONAL INTERVIEW- The interview under subsection (c)(1)(B) shall
 be conducted within 90 days after the date of submitting a petition under
 subsection (c)(1)(A) and at a local office of the Service, designated by the
 Attorney General, which is convenient to the parties involved. The Attorney
 General, in the Attorney General's discretion, may waive the deadline for
 such an interview or the requirement for such an interview in such cases
 as may be appropriate.
 `(e) TREATMENT OF PERIOD FOR PURPOSES OF NATURALIZATION- For purposes of
 title III, in the case of an alien who is in the United States as a lawful
 permanent resident on a conditional basis under this section, the alien
 shall be considered to have been admitted as an alien lawfully admitted
 for permanent residence and to be in the United States as an alien lawfully
 admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- In this section:
 `(1) The term `alien entrepreneur' means an alien who obtains the status of
 an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence (whether on a conditional
 basis or otherwise) under section 203(b)(5).
 `(2) The term `alien spouse' and the term `alien child' mean an alien who
 obtains the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence
 (whether on a conditional basis or otherwise) by virtue of being the spouse
 or child, respectively, of an alien entrepreneur.'.
 (2) ADDITIONAL GROUND FOR DEPORTATION- For additional ground of exclusion
 for termination of permanent residence on a conditional basis under section
 216A of the Immigration and Nationality Act, see section 241(a)(1)(D)
 of such Act, as amended by section 602(a) of this Act.
 (3) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR IMMIGRATION-RELATED ENTREPRENEURSHIP FRAUD-
 Section 275 (8 U.S.C. 1325) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(c) Any individual who knowingly establishes a commercial enterprise
 for the purpose of evading any provision of the immigration laws shall be
 imprisoned for not more than 5 years, fined in accordance with title 18,
 United States Code, or both.'.
 (4) LIMITATION ON ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS- Section 245 (8 U.S.C. 1255) is
 amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f) The Attorney General may not adjust, under subsection (a), the status
 of an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence
 on a conditional basis under section 216A.'.
 (5) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents is amended by inserting
 after the item relating to section 216 the following new item:
`Sec. 216A. Conditional permanent resident status for certain alien
entrepreneurs, spouses, and children.'.
SEC. 122. CHANGES IN LABOR CERTIFICATION PROCESS.
 (a) LABOR MARKET INFORMATION PILOT PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYMENT-BASED IMMIGRANTS-
 (1) The Secretary of Labor shall establish a pilot program which provides for
 a determination, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States
 Code, of labor shortages or surpluses in up to 10 defined occupational
 classifications in the United States. In making such determinations, the
 Secretary shall consider certifications approved under section 212(a)(5)(A)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act and labor market and other information.
 (2)(A) If under the pilot program there is a determination that there
 is a labor shortage with respect to an occupational classification, a
 certification under section 212(a)(5)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act for petitions for that occupational classification shall be deemed to
 have been issued.
 (B) If under the pilot program there is a determination that there is a
 labor surplus with respect to an occupational classification, the Secretary
 of Labor may nonetheless make a certification under section 212(a)(5)(A) of
 the Immigration and Nationality Act with regard to a specific job opportunity
 in the occupational classification if the employer submits evidence, based
 on extensive recruitment efforts (including such efforts as the Secretary
 may require), demonstrating that the employer meets all the requirements
 for certification under such section.
 (3) The pilot program under this subsection shall only be effective for
 applications for certifications filed during the 3-fiscal-year period
 beginning with fiscal year 1992.
 (4) By not later than April 1, 1994, the Secretary of Labor shall report
 to the Committees on Education and Labor and Judiciary of the House of
 Representatives and the Committees on Labor and Human Resources and the
 Judiciary of the Senate on the operation of the pilot program under this
 subsection and whether the program should be extended and the number of
 defined occupational classifications permitted under the program if it
 is extended.
 (b) NOTICE IN LABOR CERTIFICATIONS- The Secretary of Labor shall provide,
 in the labor certification process under section 212(a)(5)(A) of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act, that--
 (1) no certification may be made unless the applicant for certification has,
 at the time of filing the application, provided notice of the filing (A)
 to the bargaining representative (if any) of the employer's employees in
 the occupational classification and area for which aliens are sought, or
 (B) if there is no such bargaining representative, to employees employed
 at the facility through posting in conspicuous locations; and
 (2) any person may submit documentary evidence bearing on the application
 for certification (such as information on available workers, information on
 wages and working conditions, and information on the employer's failure to
 meet terms and conditions with respect to the employment of alien workers
 and co-workers).
SEC. 123. DEFINITIONS OF MANAGERIAL CAPACITY AND EXECUTIVE CAPACITY.
 Section 101(a) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following:
 `(44)(A) The term `managerial capacity' means an assignment within an
 organization in which the employee primarily--
 `(i) manages the organization, or a department, subdivision, function,
 or component of the organization;
 `(ii) supervises and controls the work of other supervisory, professional,
 or managerial employees, or manages an essential function within the
 organization, or a department or subdivision of the organization;
 `(iii) if another employee or other employees are directly supervised,
 has the authority to hire and fire or recommend those as well as other
 personnel actions (such as promotion and leave authorization) or, if no
 other employee is directly supervised, functions at a senior level within
 the organizational hierarchy or with respect to the function managed; and
 `(iv) exercises discretion over the day-to-day operations of the activity
 or function for which the employee has authority.
A first-line supervisor is not considered to be acting in a managerial
capacity merely by virtue of the supervisor's supervisory duties unless the
employees supervised are professional.
 `(B) The term `executive capacity' means an assignment within an organization
 in which the employee primarily--
 `(i) directs the management of the organization or a major component or
 function of the organization;
 `(ii) establishes the goals and policies of the organization, component,
 or function;
 `(iii) exercises wide latitude in discretionary decision-making; and
 `(iv) receives only general supervision or direction from higher level
 executives, the board of directors, or stockholders of the organization.
 `(C) If staffing levels are used as a factor in determining whether an
 individual is acting in a managerial or executive capacity, the Attorney
 General shall take into account the reasonable needs of the organization,
 component, or function in light of the overall purpose and stage of
 development of the organization, component, or function. An individual
 shall not be considered to be acting in a managerial or executive capacity
 (as previously defined) merely on the basis of the number of employees that
 the individual supervises or has supervised or directs or has directed.'.
SEC. 124. TRANSITION FOR EMPLOYEES OF CERTAIN UNITED STATES BUSINESSES
OPERATING IN HONG KONG.
 (a) ADDITIONAL VISA NUMBERS-
 (1) TREATMENT OF PRINCIPALS- In the case of any alien described in paragraph
 (3) with respect to whom a classification petition has been filed and
 approved under subsection (b), there shall be made available, in addition
 to the immigrant visas otherwise available in each of fiscal years 1991
 through 1993 and without regard to section 202(a) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act, up to 12,000 additional immigrant visas.
 (2) DERIVATIVE RELATIVES- A spouse or child (as defined in section 101(b)(1)
 (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act) shall,
 if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance
 of a visa under this section, be entitled to the same status, and the
 same order of consideration, provided under this section, if accompanying,
 or following to join, the alien's spouse or parent.
 (3) EMPLOYEES OF CERTAIN UNITED STATES BUSINESSES OPERATING IN HONG KONG-
 An alien is described in this paragraph if the alien--
 (A) is a resident of Hong Kong and is employed in Hong Kong (and has been
 so employed during the 12 previous, consecutive months) as an officer
 or supervisor or in a capacity that is managerial, executive, or involves
 specialized knowledge, by a business entity which (i) is owned and organized
 in the United States (or is the subsidiary or affiliate of a business owned
 and organized in the United States), (ii) employs at least 100 employees
 in the United States and at least 50 employees outside the United States,
 and (iii) has a gross annual income of at least $50,000,000, and
 (B) has an offer of employment from such business entity in the United States
 as an officer or supervisor or in a capacity that is managerial, executive,
 or involves specialized knowledge, which offer (i) is effective from the
 time of filing the petition for classification under this section through
 and including the time of entry into the United States and (ii) provides
 for salary and benefits comparable to the salary and benefits provided to
 others with similar responsibilities and experience within the same company.
 (b) PETITIONS- Any employer desiring and intending to employ within the
 United States an alien described in subsection (a)(3) may file a petition
 with the Attorney General for such classification. No visa may be issued
 under subsection (a)(1) until such a petition has been approved.
 (c) ALLOCATION- Visa numbers made available under subsection (a) shall be
 made available in the order which petitions under subsection (b) are filed
 with the Attorney General.
 (d) DEFINITIONS- In this section:
 (1) EXECUTIVE CAPACITY- The term `executive capacity' has the meaning given
 such term in section 101(a)(44)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
 as added by section 123 of this Act.
 (2) MANAGERIAL CAPACITY- The term `managerial capacity' has the meaning given
 such term in section 101(a)(44)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
 as added by section 123 of this Act.
 (3) OFFICER- The term `officer' means, with respect to a business entity,
 the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors of the entity,
 the chairman or vice-chairman of the executive committee of the board of
 directors, the president, any vice-president, any assistant vice-president,
 any senior trust officer, the secretary, any assistant secretary, the
 treasurer, any assistant treasurer, any trust officer or associate trust
 officer, the controller, any assistant controller, or any other officer of
 the entity customarily performing functions similar to those performed by
 any of the above officers.
 (4) SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE- The term `specialized knowledge' has the meaning
 given such term in section 214(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act, as amended by section 206(b)(2) of this Act.
 (5) SUPERVISOR- The term `supervisor' means any individual having
 authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire, transfer, suspend,
 lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other
 employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances,
 or effectively recommend such action, if in connection with the foregoing
 the exercise of such authority is not merely of a routine or clerical nature,
 but requires the use of independent judgment.
PART 3--DIVERSITY IMMIGRANTS
SEC. 131. DIVERSITY IMMIGRANTS.
 Section 203, as amended by sections 111 and 121 of this Act, is further
 amended by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c) DIVERSITY IMMIGRANTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), aliens subject to
 the worldwide level specified in section 201(e) for diversity immigrants
 shall be allotted visas each fiscal year as follows:
 `(A) DETERMINATION OF PREFERENCE IMMIGRATION- The Attorney General shall
 determine for the most recent previous 5-fiscal-year period for which data
 are available, the total number of aliens who are natives of each foreign
 state and who (i) were admitted or otherwise provided lawful permanent
 resident status (other than under this subsection) and (ii) were subject
 to the numerical limitations of section 201(a) (other than paragraph (3)
 thereof) or who were admitted or otherwise provided lawful permanent resident
 status as an immediate relative or other alien described in section 201(b)(2).
 `(B) IDENTIFICATION OF HIGH-ADMISSION AND LOW-ADMISSION REGIONS AND
 HIGH-ADMISSION AND LOW-ADMISSION STATES- The Attorney General--
 `(i) shall identify--
 `(I) each region (each in this paragraph referred to as a `high-admission
 region') for which the total of the numbers determined under subparagraph
 (A) for states in the region is greater than  1/6  of the total of all such
 numbers, and
 `(II) each other region (each in this paragraph referred to as a
 `low-admission region'); and
 `(ii) shall identify--
 `(I) each foreign state for which the number determined under subparagraph
 (A) is greater than 50,000 (each such state in this paragraph referred to
 as a `high-admission state'), and
 `(II) each other foreign state (each such state in this paragraph referred
 to as a `low-admission state').
 `(C) DETERMINATION OF PERCENTAGE OF WORLDWIDE IMMIGRATION ATTRIBUTABLE TO
 HIGH-ADMISSION REGIONS- The Attorney General shall determine the percentage
 of the total of the numbers determined under subparagraph (A) that are
 numbers for foreign states in high-admission regions.
 `(D) DETERMINATION OF REGIONAL POPULATIONS EXCLUDING HIGH-ADMISSION STATES
 AND RATIOS OF POPULATIONS OF REGIONS WITHIN LOW-ADMISSION REGIONS AND
 HIGH-ADMISSION REGIONS- The Attorney General shall determine--
 `(i) based on available estimates for each region, the total population of
 each region not including the population of any high-admission state;
 `(ii) for each low-admission region, the ratio of the population of the
 region determined under clause (i) to the total of the populations determined
 under such clause for all the low-admission regions; and
 `(iii) for each high-admission region, the ratio of the population of the
 region determined under clause (i) to the total of the populations determined
 under such clause for all the high-admission regions.
 `(E) DISTRIBUTION OF VISAS-
 `(i) NO VISAS FOR NATIVES OF HIGH-ADMISSION STATES- The percentage of visas
 made available under this paragraph to natives of a high-admission state is 0.
 `(ii) FOR LOW-ADMISSION STATES IN LOW-ADMISSION REGIONS- Subject to clauses
 (iv) and (v), the percentage of visas made available under this paragraph
 to natives (other than natives of a high-admission state) in a low-admission
 region is the product of--
 `(I) the percentage determined under subparagraph (C), and
 `(II) the population ratio for that region determined under subparagraph
 (D)(ii).
 `(iii) FOR LOW-ADMISSION STATES IN HIGH-ADMISSION REGIONS- Subject to clauses
 (iv) and (v), the percentage of visas made available under this paragraph to
 natives (other than natives of a high-admission state) in a high-admission
 region is the product of--
 `(I) 100 percent minus the percentage determined under subparagraph (C), and
 `(II) the population ratio for that region determined under subparagraph
 (D)(iii).
 `(iv) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED VISA NUMBERS- If the Secretary of State
 estimates that the number of immigrant visas to be issued to natives in
 any region for a fiscal year under this paragraph is less than the number
 of immigrant visas made available to such natives under this paragraph for
 the fiscal year, subject to clause (v), the excess visa numbers shall be
 made available to natives (other than natives of a high-admission state)
 of the other regions in proportion to the percentages otherwise specified
 in clauses (ii) and (iii).
 `(v) LIMITATION ON VISAS FOR NATIVES OF A SINGLE FOREIGN STATE- The
 percentage of visas made available under this paragraph to natives of any
 single foreign state for any fiscal year shall not exceed 7 percent.
 `(F) REGION DEFINED- Only for purposes of administering the diversity program
 under this subsection, Northern Ireland shall be treated as a separate foreign
 state, each colony or other component or dependent area of a foreign state
 overseas from the foreign state shall be treated as part of the foreign
 state, and the areas described in each of the following clauses shall be
 considered to be a separate region:
 `(i) Africa.
 `(ii) Asia.
 `(iii) Europe.
 `(iv) North America (other than Mexico).
 `(v) Oceania.
 `(vi) South America, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean.
 `(2) REQUIREMENT OF EDUCATION OR WORK EXPERIENCE- An alien is not eligible
 for a visa under this subsection unless the alien--
 `(A) has at least a high school education or its equivalent, or
 `(B) has, within 5 years of the date of application for a visa under this
 subsection, at least 2 years of work experience in an occupation which
 requires at least 2 years of training or experience.
 `(3) MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION- The Secretary of State shall maintain
 information on the age, occupation, education level, and other relevant
 characteristics of immigrants issued visas under this subsection.'.
SEC. 132. DIVERSITY TRANSITION FOR ALIENS WHO ARE NATIVES OF CERTAIN ADVERSELY
AFFECTED FOREIGN STATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the numerical limitations in sections 201 and
 202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, there shall be made available
 to qualified immigrants described in subsection (b) 40,000 immigrant visas
 in each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994.
 (b) QUALIFIED ALIEN DESCRIBED- An alien described in this subsection is an
 alien who--
 (1) is a native of a foreign state that is not contiguous to the United
 States and that was identified as an adversely affected foreign state for
 purposes of section 314 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
 (2) has a firm commitment for employment in the United States for a period of
 at least 1 year (beginning on the date of admission under this section), and
 (3) except as provided in subsection (c), is admissible as an immigrant.
 (c) DISTRIBUTION OF VISA NUMBERS- The Secretary of State shall provide
 for making immigrant visas provided under subsection (a) available in the
 chronological order in which aliens apply for each fiscal year, except that
 at least 40 percent of the number of such visas in each fiscal year shall
 be made available to natives of the foreign state the natives of which
 received the greatest number of visas issued under section 314 of the
 Immigration Reform and Control Act (or to aliens described in subsection
 (d) who are the spouses or children of such natives).
 (d) DERIVATIVE STATUS FOR SPOUSES AND CHILDREN- A spouse or child (as
 defined in section 101(b)(1) (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act) shall, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status
 and the immediate issuance of a visa under this section, be entitled to
 the same status, and the same order of consideration, provided under this
 section, if accompanying, or following to join, his spouse or parent.
 (e) WAIVERS OF GROUNDS OF EXCLUSION- In determining the admissibility
 of an alien provided a visa number under this section, the grounds of
 exclusion specified in paragraphs (5)(B) and (7)(A) of section 212(a)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply, and the Attorney
 General shall waive the ground of exclusion specified in paragraph (6)(C)
 of such section, unless the Attorney General finds that such a waiver is
 not in the national interest.
 (f) APPLICATION FEE- The Secretary of State shall require payment of a
 reasonable fee for the filing of an application under this section in order
 to cover the costs of processing applications under this section.
SEC. 133. ONE-YEAR DIVERSITY TRANSITION FOR ALIENS WHO HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED
OF AVAILABILITY OF NP-5 VISAS.
 Notwithstanding the numerical limitations in sections 201 and 202 of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act, there shall be made available in fiscal
 year 1991 immigrant visa numbers for qualified immigrants who--
 (1) were notified by the Secretary of State before May 1, 1990, of their
 selection for issuance of a visa under section 314 of the Immigration Reform
 and Control Act of 1986, and
 (2) are qualified for the issuance of such a visa but for (A) numerical and
 fiscal year limitations on the issuance of such visas, (B) section 212(a)(19)
 or 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or (C) the fact that the
 immigrant was a national, but not a native, of a foreign state described
 in section 314 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
Visas shall be made available under this section to spouses and children of
qualified immigrants in the same manner as such visas were made available
to such spouses and children under section 314 of the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986. The Attorney General may waive section 212(a)(19)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (or, on or after June 1, 1991, section
212(a)(6)(C) of such Act) in the case of qualified immigrants described in
the first sentence of this section.
SEC. 134. TRANSITION FOR DISPLACED TIBETANS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the numerical limitations in sections 201
 and 202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, there shall be made available
 to qualified displaced Tibetans described in subsection (b) 1,000 immigrant
 visas in the 3-fiscal-year period beginning with fiscal year 1991.
 (b) QUALIFIED DISPLACED TIBETAN DESCRIBED- An alien described in this
 subsection is an alien who--
 (1) is a native of Tibet, and
 (2) since before date of the enactment of this Act, has been continuously
 residing in India or Nepal.
For purposes of paragraph (1), an alien shall be considered to be a native
of Tibet if the alien was born in Tibet or is the son, daughter, grandson,
or granddaughter of an individual born in Tibet.
 (c) DISTRIBUTION OF VISA NUMBERS- The Secretary of State shall provide for
 making immigrant visas provided under subsection (a) available to displaced
 aliens described in subsection (b) (or described in subsection (d) as the
 spouse or child of such an alien) in an equitable manner, giving preference
 to those aliens who are not firmly resettled in India or Nepal or who are
 most likely to be resettled successfully in the United States.
 (d) DERIVATIVE STATUS FOR SPOUSES AND CHILDREN- A spouse or child (as
 defined in section 101(b)(1) (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act) shall, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status
 and the immediate issuance of a visa under this section, be entitled to
 the same status, and the same order of consideration, provided under this
 section, if accompanying, or following to join, his spouse or parent.
Subtitle C--Commission and Information
SEC. 141. COMMISSION ON LEGAL IMMIGRATION REFORM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION- (1) Effective October 1,
 1991, there is established a Commission on Legal Immigration Reform (in
 this section referred to as the `Commission') which shall be composed of
 9 members to be appointed as follows:
 (A) One member who shall serve as Chairman, to be appointed by the President.
 (B) Two members to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives
 who shall select such members from a list of nominees provided by the
 Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and International
 Law of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
 (C) Two members to be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of
 Representatives who shall select such members from a list of nominees
 provided by the ranking minority member of the Subcommittee on Immigration,
 Refugees, and International Law of the Committee on the Judiciary of the
 House of Representatives.
 (D) Two members to be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate who
 shall select such members from a list of nominees provided by the Chairman
 of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs of the Committee on
 the Judiciary of the Senate.
 (E) Two members to be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate who
 shall select such members from a list of nominees provided by the ranking
 minority member of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs of
 the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
 (2) Initial appointments to the Commission shall be made during the 45-day
 period beginning on October 1, 1991. A vacancy in the Commission shall be
 filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (3) Members shall be appointed to serve for the life of the Commission,
 except that the term of the member described in paragraph (1)(A) shall
 expire at noon on January 20, 1993, and the President shall appoint an
 individual to serve for the remaining life of the Commission.
 (b) FUNCTIONS OF COMMISSION- The Commission shall--
 (1) review and evaluate the impact of this Act and the amendments made by
 this Act, in accordance with subsection (c); and
 (2) transmit to the Congress--
 (A) not later than September 30, 1994, a first report describing the progress
 made in carrying out paragraph (1), and
 (B) not later than September 30, 1997, a final report setting forth the
 Commission's findings and recommendations, including such recommendations
 for additional changes that should be made with respect to legal immigration
 into the United States as the Commission deems appropriate.
 (c) CONSIDERATIONS-
 (1) PARTICULAR CONSIDERATIONS- In particular, the Commission shall consider
 the following:
 (A) The requirements of citizens of the United States and of aliens lawfully
 admitted for permanent residence to be joined in the United States by
 immediate family members and the impact which the establishment of a
 national level of immigration has upon the availability and priority of
 family preference visas.
 (B) The impact of immigration and the implementation of the employment-based
 and diversity programs on labor needs, employment, and other economic and
 domestic conditions in the United States.
 (C) The social, demographic, and natural resources impact of immigration.
 (D) The impact of immigration on the foreign policy and national security
 interests of the United States.
 (E) The impact of per country immigration levels on family-sponsored
 immigration.
 (F) The impact of the numerical limitation on the adjustment of status of
 aliens granted asylum.
 (G) The impact of the numerical limitations on the admission of nonimmigrants
 under section 214(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
 (2) DIVERSITY PROGRAM- The Commission shall analyze the information maintained
 under section 203(c)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and shall
 report to Congress in its report under subsection (b)(2) on--
 (A) the characteristics of individuals admitted under section 203(c) of
 the Immigration and Nationality Act, and
 (B) how such characteristics compare to the characteristics of
 family-sponsored immigrants and employment-based immigrants.
The Commission shall include in the report an assessment of the effect of
the requirement of paragraph (2) of section 203(c) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act on the diversity, educational, and skill level of aliens
admitted.
 (d) COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS- (1) Each member of the Commission who is not
 an officer or employee of the Federal Government is entitled to receive,
 subject to such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts,
 pay at the daily equivalent of the minimum annual rate of basic pay in effect
 for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule. Each member of the Commission who
 is such an officer or employee shall serve without additional pay.
 (2) While away from their homes or regular places of business in the
 performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall
 be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence.
 (e) MEETINGS, STAFF, AND AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION- The provisions of
 subsections (e) through (g) of section 304 of the Immigration Reform and
 Control Act of 1986 shall apply to the Commission in the same manner as
 they apply to the Commission established under such section, except that
 paragraph (2) of subsection (e) thereof shall not apply.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) There are authorized to be
 appropriated to the Commission such sums as may be necessary to carry out
 this section.
 (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the authority
 to make payments, or to enter into contracts, under this section shall
 be effective only to such extent, or in such amounts, as are provided in
 advance in appropriations Acts.
 (g) TERMINATION DATE- The Commission shall terminate on the date on which
 a final report is required to be transmitted under subsection (b)(2)(B),
 except that the Commission may continue to function until January 1, 1998,
 for the purpose of concluding its activities, including providing testimony
 to standing committees of Congress concerning its final report under this
 section and disseminating that report.
 (h) CONGRESSIONAL RESPONSE- (1) No later than 90 days after the date of
 receipt of each report transmitted under subsection (b)(2), the Committees
 on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate shall
 initiate hearings to consider the findings and recommendations of the report.
 (2) No later than 180 days after the date of receipt of such a report,
 each such Committee shall report to its respective House its oversight
 findings and any legislation it deems appropriate.
SEC. 142. STATISTICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM.
 Section 103 (8 U.S.C. 1103) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsections:
 `(c)(1) The Commissioner, in consultation with interested academicians,
 government agencies, and other parties, shall provide for a system for
 collection and dissemination, to Congress and the public, of information
 (not in individually identifiable form) useful in evaluating the social,
 economic, environmental, and demographic impact of immigration laws.
 `(2) Such information shall include information on the alien population in
 the United States, on the rates of naturalization and emigration of resident
 aliens, on aliens who have been admitted, paroled, or granted asylum, on
 nonimmigrants in the United States (by occupation, basis for admission,
 and duration of stay), on aliens who have been excluded or deported from
 the United States, on the number of applications filed and granted for
 suspension of deportation, and on the number of aliens estimated to be
 present unlawfully in the United States in each fiscal year.
 `(3) Such system shall provide for the collection and dissemination of such
 information not less often than annually.
 `(d)(1) The Commissioner shall submit to Congress annually a report which
 contains a summary of the information collected under subsection (c) and
 an analysis of trends in immigration and naturalization.
 `(2) Each annual report shall include information on the number, and rate
 of denial administratively, of applications for naturalization, for each
 district office of the Service and by national origin group.'.
Subtitle D--Miscellaneous
SEC. 151. REVISION OF SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROVISIONS RELATING TO RELIGIOUS
WORKERS (C SPECIAL IMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subparagraph (C) of section 101(a)(27) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(C) an immigrant, and the immigrant's spouse and children if accompanying
 or following to join the immigrant, who--
 `(i) for at least 2 years immediately preceding the time of application for
 admission, has been a member of a religious denomination having a bona fide
 nonprofit, religious organization in the United States;
 `(ii) seeks to enter the United States--
 `(I) solely for the purpose of carrying on the vocation of a minister of
 that religious denomination,
 `(II) before October 1, 1994, in order to work for the organization at
 the request of the organization in a professional capacity in a religious
 vocation or occupation, or
 `(III) before October 1, 1994, in order to work for the organization
 (or for a bona fide organization which is affiliated with the religious
 denomination and is exempt from taxation as an organization described in
 section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) at the request of
 the organization in a religious vocation or occupation; and
 `(iii) has been carrying on such vocation, professional work, or other work
 continuously for at least the 2-year period described in clause (i);'.
 (b) REFERENCE TO NEW NONIMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION- For establishment of
 nonimmigrant classification for religious workers, see section 209.
SEC. 152. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS EMPLOYED AT THE UNITED
STATES MISSION IN HONG KONG (D SPECIAL IMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (c), an alien described in subsection
 (b) shall be treated as a special immigrant described in section 101(a)(27)(D)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
 (b) ALIENS COVERED- An alien is described in this subsection if--
 (1) the alien is--
 (A) an employee at the United States consulate in Hong Kong under the
 authority of the Chief of Mission (including employment pursuant to section
 5913 of title 5, United States Code) who has performed faithful service
 for a total of three years or more, or
 (B) a member of the immediate family (as defined in 6 Foreign Affairs Manual
 117k as of the date of the enactment of this Act) of an employee described in
 subparagraph (A) who has been living with the employee in the same household;
 (2) the welfare of the employee or such an immediate family member is
 subject to a clear threat due directly to the employee's employment with
 the United States Government or under a United States Government official; and
 (3) the principal officer in Hong Kong, in the officer's discretion,
 has recommended the granting of special immigrant status to such alien
 in exceptional circumstances and the Secretary of State approves such
 recommendation and finds that it is in the national interest to grant
 such status.
 (c) EXPIRATION- Subsection (a) shall only apply to aliens who file an
 application for special immigrant status under this section by not later
 than January 1, 2002.
 (d) LIMITED WAIVER OF NUMERICAL LIMITATIONS- The first 500 visas made
 available to aliens as special immigrants under this section shall not be
 counted against any numerical limitation established under section 201 or
 202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
SEC. 153. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS DECLARED DEPENDENT ON
A JUVENILE COURT (J SPECIAL IMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 101(a)(27) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (H),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (I) and inserting `;
 or', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(J) an immigrant (i) who has been declared dependent on a juvenile court
 located in the United States and has been deemed eligible by that court
 for long-term foster care, and (ii) for whom it has been determined in
 administrative or judicial proceedings that it would not be in the alien's
 best interest to be returned to the alien's or parent's previous country of
 nationality or country of last habitual residence; except that no natural
 parent or prior adoptive parent of any alien provided special immigrant
 status under this subparagraph shall thereafter, by virtue of such parentage,
 be accorded any right, privilege, or status under this Act.'.
 (b) WAIVER OF GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 241 (8 U.S.C. 1251) is amended by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(h) Paragraphs (1), (2), (5), (9), or (12) of subsection 241(a) (other
 than so much of paragraph (1) as relates to a ground of exclusion described
 in paragraph (9), (10), (23), (27), (29), or (33) of section 212(a)) shall
 not apply to a special immigrant described in section 101(a)(27)(J) based
 upon circumstances that exist before the date the alien was provided such
 special immigrant status.'.
 (2) USE OF NEW GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION- Effective on the date that the
 amendments made by section 602 of this Act become effective, the subsection
 added by paragraph (1) is amended to read as follows:
 `(h) Paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B), (1)(C), (1)(D), or (3)(A), of subsection
 241(a) (other than so much of paragraph (1) as relates to a ground of
 exclusion described in paragraph (2) or (3) of section 212(a)) shall not
 apply to a special immigrant described in section 101(a)(27)(J) based upon
 circumstances that exist before the date the alien was provided such special
 immigrant status.'.
SEC. 154. PERMITTING EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF IMMIGRANT VISAS FOR
CERTAIN RESIDENTS OF HONG KONG.
 (a) EXTENDING PERIOD OF VALIDITY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the limitation on the period of
 validity of an immigrant visa under section 221(c) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act shall not apply in the case of an immigrant visa issued,
 on or after the date of the enactment of this Act and before September 1,
 2001, to an alien described in subsection (b), but only if--
 (A) the alien elects, within the period of validity of the immigrant visa
 under such section, to have this section apply, and
 (B) before the date the alien seeks to be admitted to the United States
 for lawful permanent residence, the alien notifies the appropriate consular
 officer of the alien's intention to seek such admission and provides such
 officer with such information as the officer determines to be necessary to
 verify that the alien remains eligible for admission to the United States
 as an immigrant.
 (2) LIMITATION ON EXTENSION- In no case shall the period of validity of a
 visa be extended under paragraph (1) beyond January 1, 2002.
 (3) TREATMENT UNDER NUMERICAL LIMITATIONS- In applying the numerical
 limitations of sections 201 and 202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
 in the case of aliens for whose visas the period of validity is extended
 under this section, such limitations shall only apply at the time of original
 issuance of the visas and not at the time of admission of such aliens.
 (b) ALIENS COVERED- An alien is described in this subsection if the alien--
 (1)(A) is chargeable under section 202 of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act to Hong Kong, and
 (B)(i) is residing in Hong Kong as of the date of the enactment of this
 Act and is issued an immigrant visa under paragraph (1), (2), (4), or (5)
 of section 203(a) the Immigration and Nationality Act (as in effect on the
 date of the enactment of this Act) or under section 203(a) or 203(b)(1) of
 such Act (as in effect on and after October 1, 1991), or (ii) is the spouse or
 child (as defined in subsection (d)) of an alien described in clause (i), if
 accompanying or following to join the alien in coming to the United States; or
 (2) is issued a visa under section 124 of this Act.
 (c) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN EMPLOYEES IN HONG KONG-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In applying the proviso of section 7 of the Central
 Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, in the case of an alien described in
 paragraph (2), the Director may charge the entry of the alien against the
 numerical limitation for any fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 1991
 and ending with fiscal year 1996) notwithstanding that the alien's entry
 is not made to the United States in that fiscal year so long as such entry
 is made before the end of fiscal year 1997.
 (2) ALIENS COVERED- An alien is described in this paragraph if the alien--
 (A) is an employee of the Foreign Broadcast Information Service in Hong
 Kong, or
 (B) is the spouse or child (as defined in subsection (d)) of an alien
 described in subparagraph (A), if accompanying or following to join the
 alien in coming to the United States.
 (3) RELATION TO SIMILAR PROVISION- The provisions of this subsection
 supersede section 403 of the Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1991.
 (d) TREATMENT OF CHILDREN- In this section, the term `child' has the meaning
 given such term in section 101(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act and also includes (for purposes of this section and the Immigration and
 Nationality Act as it applies to this section) an alien who was the child
 (as so defined) of the alien as of the date of the issuance of an immigrant
 visa to the alien described in subsection (b)(1) or, in the case described
 in subsection (c), as of the date of charging of the entry of the alien under
 the proviso under section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949.
SEC. 155. EXPEDITED ISSUANCE OF LEBANESE SECOND AND FIFTH PREFERENCE VISAS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In the issuance of immigrant visas to certain Lebanese
 immigrants described in subsection (b) in fiscal years 1991 and 1992 and
 notwithstanding section 203(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (to
 the extent inconsistent with this section), the Secretary of State shall
 provide that immigrant visas which would otherwise be made available in the
 fiscal year shall be made available as early as possible in the fiscal year.
 (b) LEBANESE IMMIGRANTS COVERED- Lebanese immigrants described in this
 subsection are aliens who--
 (1) are natives of Lebanon,
 (2) are not firmly resettled in any foreign country outside Lebanon, and
 (3) as of the date of the enactment of this Act, are the beneficiaries of
 a petition approved to accord status under section 203(a)(2) or 203(a)(5)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (as in effect as of the date of the
 enactment of this Act),
or the child of such an alien if accompanying or following to join the alien.
Subtitle E--Effective Dates; Conforming Amendments
SEC. 161. EFFECTIVE DATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this section, the amendments
 made by this title shall take effect on October 1, 1991, and apply beginning
 with fiscal year 1992.
 (b) PROVISIONS TAKING EFFECT UPON ENACTMENT- The following sections (and
 amendments made by such sections) shall take effect on the date of the
 enactment of this Act and (unless otherwise provided) apply to fiscal
 year 1991:
 (1) Section 103 (relating to per country limitation for Hong Kong).
 (2) Section 104 (relating to asylee adjustments).
 (3) Section 124 (relating to transition for employees of certain
 U.S. businesses in Hong Kong).
 (4) Section 133 (relating to one-year diversity transition for aliens who
 have been notified of availability of NP-5 visas).
 (5) Section 134 (relating to transition for displaced Tibetans).
 (6)  Section 153 (relating to special immigrants who are dependent on a
 juvenile court).
 (7) Section 154 (permitting extension of validity of visas for certain
 residents of Hong Kong).
 (8) Section 155 (relating to expedited issuance of Lebanese second and
 fifth preference visas).
 (9) Section 162(b) (relating to immigrant visa petitioning process), but
 only insofar as such section relates to visas for fiscal years beginning
 with fiscal year 1992.
 (c) GENERAL TRANSITIONS-
 (1) In the case of a petition filed under section 204(a) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act before October 1, 1991, for preference status under
 section 203(a)(3) or section 203(a)(6) of such Act (as in effect before
 such date)--
 (A) in order to maintain the priority date with respect to such a petition,
 the petitioner must file (by not later than October 1, 1993) a new petition
 for classification of the employment under paragraph (1), (2), or (3)
 of section 203(b) of such Act (as amended by this title), and
 (B) any labor certification under section 212(a)(5)(A) of such Act required
 with respect to the new petition shall be deemed approved if the labor
 certification with respect to the previous petition was previously approved
 under section 212(a)(14) of such Act.
 (2) Any petition filed under section 204(a) of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act before October 1, 1991, for preference status under section 203(a)(4)
 or section 203(a)(5) of such Act (as in effect before such date) shall
 be deemed, as of such date, to be a petition filed under such section for
 preference status under section 203(a)(3) or section 203(a)(4), respectively,
 of such Act (as amended by this title).
 (d) ADMISSIBILITY STANDARDS- When an immigrant, in possession of an unexpired
 immigrant visa issued before October 1, 1991, makes application for admission,
 the immigrant's admissibility under paragraph (7)(A) of section  212(a) of
 the Immigration and Nationality Act shall be determined under the provisions
 of law in effect on the date of the issuance of such visa.
 (e) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this title shall be construed as affecting the
 provisions of section 19 of Public Law 97-116, section 2(c)(1) of Public
 Law 97-271, or section 202(e) of Public Law 99-603.
SEC. 162. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) RESTATEMENT OF DERIVATIVE STATUS, ORDER OF CONSIDERATION,  ETC- (1)
 Section 203, as amended by subtitle B, is further amended by striking all
 that follows subsection (c) and inserting the following:
 `(d) TREATMENT OF FAMILY MEMBERS- A spouse or child as defined in subparagraph
 (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of section 101(b)(1) shall, if not otherwise
 entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa under
 subsection (a), (b), or (c), be entitled to the same status, and the same
 order of consideration provided in the respective subsection, if accompanying
 or following to join, the spouse or parent.
 `(e) ORDER OF CONSIDERATION- (1) Immigrant visas made available under
 subsection (a) or (b) shall be issued to eligible immigrants in the order in
 which a petition in behalf of each such immigrant is filed with the Attorney
 General (or in the case of special immigrants under section 101(a)(27)(D),
 with the Secretary of State) as provided in section 204(a).
 `(2) Immigrant visa numbers made available under subsection (c) (relating
 to diversity immigrants) shall be issued to eligible qualified immigrants
 strictly in a random order established by the Secretary of State for the
 fiscal year involved.
 `(3) Waiting lists of applicants for visas under this section shall be
 maintained in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary
 of State.
 `(f) PRESUMPTION- Every immigrant shall be presumed not to be described
 in subsection (a) or (b) of this section, section 101(a)(27), or section
 201(b)(2), until the immigrant establishes to the satisfaction of the
 consular officer and the immigration officer that the immigrant is so
 described. In the case of any alien claiming in his application for an
 immigrant visa to be described in section 201(b)(1) or in subsection (a)
 or (b) of this section, the consular officer shall not grant such status
 until he has been authorized to do so as provided by section 204.
 `(g) LISTS- For purposes of carrying out the Secretary's responsibilities in
 the orderly administration of this section, the Secretary of State may make
 reasonable estimates of the anticipated numbers of visas to be issued during
 any quarter of any fiscal year within each of the categories under subsections
 (a), (b), and (c) and to rely upon such estimates in authorizing the issuance
 of visas. The Secretary of State shall terminate the registration of any
 alien who fails to apply for an immigrant visa within one year following
 notification to the alien of the availability of such visa, but the Secretary
 shall reinstate the registration of any such alien who establishes within 2
 years following the date of notification of the availability of such visa that
 such failure to apply was due to circumstances beyond the alien's control.'.
 (2) Nothing in this Act may be construed as continuing the availability
 of visas under section 203(a)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
 as in effect before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) CHANGES IN PETITIONING PROCEDURE- Section 204 (8 U.S.C. 1154) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `(a)(1)' and all that follows through
 the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
 `(a)(1)(A) Any citizen of the United States claiming that an alien is entitled
 to classification by reason of a relationship described in paragraph (1),
 (3), or (4) of section 203(a) or to an immediate relative status under
 section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) may file a petition with the Attorney General for
 such classification.
 `(B) Any alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence claiming that
 an alien is entitled to a classification by reason of the relationship
 described in section 203(a)(2) may file a petition with the Attorney General
 for such classification.
 `(C) Any alien desiring to be classified under section 203(b)(1)(A), or any
 person on behalf of such an alien, may file a petition with the Attorney
 General for such classification.
 `(D) Any employer desiring and intending to employ within the United States
 an alien entitled to classification under section 203(b)(1)(B), 203(b)(1)(C),
 203(b)(2), or 203(b)(3) may file a petition with the Attorney General for
 such classification.
 `(E)(i) Any alien (other than a special immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(D))
 desiring to be classified under section 203(b)(4), or any person on behalf
 of such an alien, may file a petition with the Attorney General for such
 classification.
 `(ii) Aliens claiming status as a special immigrant under section
 101(a)(27)(D) may file a petition only with the Secretary of State and only
 after notification by the Secretary that such status has been recommended
 and approved pursuant to such section.
 `(F) Any alien desiring to be classified under section 203(b)(5) may file
 a petition with the Secretary of State for such classification.
 `(G)(i) Any alien desiring to be provided an immigrant visa under section
 203(c) may file a petition at the place and time determined by the Secretary
 of State by regulation. Only one such petition may be filed by an alien with
 respect to any petitioning period established. If more than one petition is
 submitted all such petitions submitted for such period by the alien shall
 be voided.
 `(ii)(I) The Secretary of State shall designate a period for the filing of
 petitions with respect to visas which may be issued under section 203(c)
 for the fiscal year beginning after the end of the period.
 `(II) Aliens who qualify, through random selection, for a visa under section
 203(c) shall remain eligible to receive such visa only through the end of
 the specific fiscal year for which they were selected.
 `(III) The Secretary of State shall prescribe such regulations as may be
 necessary to carry out this clause.
 `(iii) A petition or registration under this subparagraph shall be in
 such form as the Secretary of State may by regulation prescribe and shall
 contain such information and be supported by such documentary evidence as
 the Secretary of State may require.';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `section 203(a) (3) or (6)' and inserting `section 203(b)(2)
 or 203(b)(3)', and
 (B) by striking `a preference status under section 203(a)' and inserting
 `preference under subsection (a) or (b) of section 203';
 (3) in subsection (e), by striking `preference immigrant under section 203(a)'
 and inserting `immigrant under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 203';
 (4) in subsection (g)(1), by striking `203(a)(4)' and inserting `203(a)(3)';
 (5) by striking subsection (f); and
 (6) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as (f) and (g), respectively.
 (e) ADDITIONAL CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) Section  212(a)(5) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(5)), as amended by section 601(a)
 of this Act, is amended--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `Any alien who seeks to enter the
 United States for the purpose of performing skilled or unskilled labor'
 and inserting `Any alien who seeks admission or status as an immigrant
 under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 203(b)',
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting `who seeks admission or status as an
 immigrant under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 203(b)' after `An alien'
 the first place it appears, and
 (C) by striking subparagraph (C).
 (2) Section 244(d) (8 U.S.C. 1254(d)) is amended by striking `, and unless'
 and all that follows through `then current'.
 (3) Section 245(b) (8 U.S.C. 1255(b)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `or nonpreference',
 (B) by striking `202(e) or 203(a)' and inserting `201(a)', and
 (C) by striking `for the fiscal year then current' and inserting `for the
 succeeding fiscal year'.
 (4) Section 3304(a)(14)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
 by striking `section 203(a)(7) or'.
 (5) Section 1614(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Social Security Act is amended by striking
 `section 203(a)(7) or'.
 (6) Section 2(c)(4) of the Virgin Islands Nonimmigrant Alien Adjustment Act
 of 1982 (Public Law 97-271) is amended by inserting before the period at the
 end the following: `(as in effect before October 1, 1991) or by reason of
 the relationship described in section 203(a)(2), 203(a)(3), or 203(a)(4),
 or 201(b)(2)(A)(i), respectively, of such Act (as in effect on or after
 such date)'.
 (f) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO IMMIGRATION NURSING RELIEF ACT OF 1989-
 (1) Section 2(b) of the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989 (Public Law
 101-238) is amended--
 (A) by striking `December 31, 1989' and inserting `September 1, 1989',
 (B) by striking `in the lawful status' and inserting `in the status',
 (C) by inserting `unauthorized employment performed before the date of the
 enactment of the Immigration Act of 1990 shall not be taken into account
 in applying section 245(c)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and'
 after `spouse or child of such an alien,', and
 (D) by striking `lawful status as such a nonimmigrant' and all that follows
 through `subsection (a)' and inserting `lawful status throughout his or her
 stay in the United States as a nonimmigrant until the end of the 120-day
 period beginning on the date the Attorney General promulgates regulations
 carrying out the amendments made by section 162(f)(1) of the Immigration
 Act of 1990'.
 (2)(A) Section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a)) is
 amended by striking `for the facility for which the alien will perform the
 services, or' and inserting `for each facility (which facility shall include
 the petitioner and each worksite, other than a private household worksite,
 if the worksite is not the alien's employer or controlled by the employer)
 for which the alien will perform the services, or'.
 (B) Section 212(m)(2)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(2)(A)) is amended--
 (i)  by striking `, with respect to a facility for which an alien will
 perform services,',
 (ii) in clause (iii), by inserting `employed by the facility' after `The
 alien', and
 (iii) by adding at the end the following: `In the case of an alien for
 whom an employer has filed an attestation under this subparagraph and who
 is performing services at a worksite other than the employer's or other
 than a worksite controlled by the employer, the Secretary may waive such
 requirements for the attestation for the worksite as may be appropriate in
 order to avoid duplicative attestations, in cases of temporary, emergency
 circumstances, with respect to information not within the knowledge of the
 attestor, or for other good cause.'.
 (3) The amendments made by this subsection shall apply as though included
 in the enactment of the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989.
TITLE II--NONIMMIGRANTS
Subtitle A--General and Permanent Provisions
SEC. 201. REVISION AND EXTENSION OF THE VISA WAIVER PILOT PROGRAM FOR FOREIGN
TOURISTS (B NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 217 (8 U.S.C. 1187) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting `, and presents a passport issued by,'
 after `is a national of';
 (2) in subsection (a)(3)--
 (A) by striking `ENTRY CONTROL AND WAIVER FORMS' and inserting `IMMIGRATION
 FORMS', and
 (B) by striking all that follows `such admission' and inserting `completes
 such immigration form as the Attorney General shall establish.';
 (3) by striking paragraph (4) of subsection (a) and inserting the following:
 `(4) ENTRY BY SEA OR AIR- If arriving by sea or air, the alien arrives at
 the port of entry into the United States on a carrier which has entered
 into an agreement with the Service to guarantee transport of the alien out
 of the United States if the alien is found inadmissible or deportable by
 an immigration officer.';
 (4) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following new paragraph:
 `(7) ROUND-TRIP TICKET- The alien is in possession of a round-trip
 transportation ticket (unless this requirement is waived by the Attorney
 General under regulations).';
 (5) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking the heading and paragraphs (1) through (3), and
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) (and subparagraphs (A) and (B) thereof)
 as subsection (b) (and paragraphs (1) and (2) thereof, respectively), and
 moving the indentation of such redesignated subsection and paragraphs 2
 ems to the left;
 (6) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in paragraph (1)--
 (i) by striking `UP TO 8 COUNTRIES' in the heading and inserting `IN
 GENERAL', and
 (ii) by striking all that follows `may designate' and inserting `any
 country as a pilot program country if it meets the requirements of paragraph
 (2).'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by striking `INITIAL QUALIFICATIONS' in the heading and inserting
 `QUALIFICATIONS',
 (ii) by striking `For the initial period described in paragraph (4),
 a country' and inserting `A country', and
 (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) MACHINE READABLE PASSPORT PROGRAM- The government of the country
 certifies that it has or is in the process of developing a program to issue
 machine-readable passports to its citizens.
 `(D) LAW ENFORCEMENT INTERESTS- The Attorney General determines that the
 United States law enforcement interests would not be compromised by the
 designation of the country.';
 (7) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f),
 respectively, and by inserting after subsection (c) the following new
 subsection:
 `(d) AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
 the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, acting jointly, may for
 any reason (including national security) refrain from waiving the visa
 requirement in respect to nationals of any country which may otherwise
 qualify for designation or may, at any time, rescind any waiver or designation
 previously granted under this section.';
 (8) in subsection (e)(1), as so redesignated--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (A),
 (B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting `,
 and', and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) to be subject to the imposition of fines resulting from the transporting
 into the United States of a national of a designated country without a
 passport pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Attorney General.'; and
 (9) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by striking all that follows
 `the period beginning' and inserting `on October 1, 1988, and ending on
 September 30, 1994.'.
 (b) PENALTY FOR TRANSPORT OF ALIENS WITHOUT VALID VISAS- Section 273 (8
 U.S.C. 1323) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `a valid passport and' before `an
 unexpired visa', and
 (2) in subsection (c), by inserting `valid passport or' before `visa was
 required'.
 (c) REPORT- By not later than January 1, 1992, the Attorney General, in
 consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Committees on
 the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate a report on
 the operation of the automated data arrival and departure control system for
 foreign visitors and on admission refusals and overstays for such visitors
 who have entered under the visa waiver program.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 202. DENIAL OF CREWMEMBER STATUS IN THE CASE OF CERTAIN LABOR DISPUTES
(D NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 214 (8 U.S.C. 1184) is amended by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), no alien shall be entitled to
 nonimmigrant status described in section 101(a)(15)(D) if the alien intends
 to land for the purpose of performing service on board a vessel of the
 United States (as defined in section 2101(46) of title 46, United States
 Code) or on an aircraft of an air carrier (as defined in section 101(3)
 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958) during a labor dispute where there
 is a strike or lockout in the bargaining unit of the employer in which the
 alien intends to perform such service.
 `(2) An alien described in paragraph (1)--
 `(A) may not be paroled into the United States pursuant to section 212(d)(5)
 unless the Attorney General determines that the parole of such alien is
 necessary to protect the national security of the United States; and
 `(B) shall be considered not to be a bona fide crewman for purposes of
 section 252(b).
 `(3) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an alien if the air carrier or owner
 or operator of such vessel that employs the alien provides documentation
 that satisfies the Attorney General that the alien--
 `(A) has been an employee of such employer for a period of not less than
 1 year preceding the date that a strike or lawful lockout commenced;
 `(B) has served as a qualified crewman for such employer at least once in
 each of 3 months during the 12-month period preceding such date; and
 `(C) shall continue to provide the same services that such alien provided
 as such a crewman.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 212(d)(5)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)(A))
 is amended by inserting `or in section 214(f)' after `except as provided
 in subparagraph (B)'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 203. LIMITATIONS ON PERFORMANCE OF LONGSHORE WORK BY ALIEN CREWMEN
(D NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) LIMITATION ON ALIENS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Chapter 6 of title II is amended by adding at the end the
 following new section:
`LIMITATIONS ON PERFORMANCE OF LONGSHORE WORK BY ALIEN CREWMEN
 `SEC. 258. (a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of section 101(a)(15)(D)(i), the
 term `normal operation and service on board a vessel' does not include any
 activity that is longshore work (as defined in subsection (b)), except as
 provided under subsection (c) or subsection (d).
 `(b) LONGSHORE WORK DEFINED-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In this section, except as provided in paragraph (2), the
 term `longshore work' means any activity relating to the loading or unloading
 of cargo, the operation of cargo-related equipment (whether or not integral
 to the vessel), and the handling of mooring lines on the dock when the vessel
 is made fast or let go, in the United States or the coastal waters thereof.
 `(2) EXCEPTION FOR SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION- The term `longshore
 work' does not include the loading or unloading of any cargo for which the
 Secretary of Transportation has, under the authority contained in chapter
 37 of title 46, United States Code (relating to Carriage of Liquid Bulk
 Dangerous Cargoes), section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
 (33 U.S.C. 1321), section 4106 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or section
 105 or 106 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1804,
 1805) prescribed regulations which govern--
 `(A) the handling or stowage of such cargo,
 `(B) the manning of vessels and the duties, qualifications, and training
 of the officers and crew of vessels carrying such cargo, and
 `(C) the reduction or elimination of discharge during ballasting, tank
 cleaning, handling of such cargo.
 `(3) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as broadening,
 limiting, or otherwise modifying the meaning or scope of longshore work for
 purposes of any other law, collective bargaining agreement, or international
 agreement.
 `(c) PREVAILING PRACTICE EXCEPTION- (1) Subsection (a) shall not apply to
 a particular activity of longshore work in and about a local port if--
 `(A)(i) there is in effect in the local port one or more collective bargaining
 agreements each covering at least 30 percent of the number of individuals
 employed in performing longshore work and (ii) each such agreement (covering
 such percentage of longshore workers) permits the activity to be performed
 by alien crewmen under the terms of such agreement; or
 `(B) there is no collective bargaining agreement in effect in the local
 port covering at least 30 percent of the number of individuals employed
 in performing longshore work, and an employer of alien crewmen (or the
 employer's designated agent or representative) has filed with the Secretary
 of Labor at least 14 days before the date of performance of the activity
 (or later, if necessary due to an unanticipated emergency, but not later
 than the date of performance of the activity) an attestation setting forth
 facts and evidence to show that--
 `(i) the performance of the activity by alien crewmen is permitted under
 the prevailing practice of the particular port as of the date of filing of
 the attestation and that the use of alien crewmen for such activity--
 `(I) is not during a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute, and
 `(II) is not intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining
 representative for workers in the local port; and
 `(ii) notice of the attestation has been provided by the owner, agent,
 consignee, master, or commanding officer to the bargaining representative of
 longshore workers in the local port, or, where there is no such bargaining
 representative, notice of the attestation has been provided to longshore
 workers employed at the local port.
In applying subparagraph (B) in the case of a particular activity of longshore
work consisting of the use of an automated self-unloading conveyor belt or
vacuum-actuated system on a vessel, the attestation shall be required to
be filed only if the Secretary of Labor finds, based on a preponderance
of the evidence which may be submitted by any interested party, that the
performance of such particular activity is not described in clause (i)
of such subparagraph.
 `(2) Subject to paragraph (4), an attestation under paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) expire at the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of its
 filing with the Secretary of Labor, and
 `(B) apply to aliens arriving in the United States during such 1-year period
 if the owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer states in each
 such list under section 251 that it continues to comply with the conditions
 in the attestation.
 `(3) An owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer may meet
 the requirements under this subsection with respect to more than one alien
 crewman in a single list.
 `(4)(A) The Secretary of Labor shall compile and make available for public
 examination in a timely manner in Washington, D.C., a list identifying owners,
 agents, consignees, masters, or commanding officers which have filed lists
 for nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(D)(i) with respect to
 whom an attestation under paragraph (1) is made and, for each such entity,
 a copy of the entity's attestation under paragraph (1) (and accompanying
 documentation) and each such list filed by the entity.
 `(B)(i) The Secretary of Labor shall establish a process for the receipt,
 investigation, and disposition of complaints respecting an entity's failure
 to meet conditions attested to, an entity's misrepresentation of a material
 fact in an attestation, or, in the case described in the last sentence of
 paragraph (1), whether the performance of the particular activity is or is
 not described in paragraph (1)(B)(i).
 `(ii) Complaints may be filed by any aggrieved person or organization
 (including bargaining representatives, associations deemed appropriate by
 the Secretary, and other aggrieved parties as determined under regulations
 of the Secretary).
 `(iii) The Secretary shall promptly conduct an investigation under this
 subparagraph if there is reasonable cause to believe that an entity fails to
 meet conditions attested to, an entity has misrepresented a material fact in
 the attestation, or, in the case described in the last sentence of paragraph
 (1), the performance of the particular activity is not described in paragraph
 (1)(B)(i).
 `(C)(i) If the Secretary determines that reasonable cause exists to conduct
 an investigation with respect to an attestation, a complaining party may
 request that the activities attested to by the employer cease during the
 hearing process described in subparagraph (D). If such a request is made,
 the attesting employer shall be issued notice of such request and shall
 respond within 14 days to the notice. If the Secretary makes an initial
 determination that the complaining party's position is supported by
 a preponderance of the evidence submitted, the Secretary shall require
 immediately that the employer cease and desist from such activities until
 completion of the process described in subparagraph (D).
 `(ii) If the Secretary determines that reasonable cause exists to conduct an
 investigation with respect to a matter under the last sentence of paragraph
 (1), a complaining party may request that the activities of the employer
 cease during the hearing process described in subparagraph (D) unless the
 employer files with the Secretary of Labor an attestation under paragraph
 (1). If such a request is made, the employer shall be issued notice of such
 request and shall respond within 14 days to the notice. If the Secretary
 makes an initial determination that the complaining party's position is
 supported by a preponderance of the evidence submitted, the Secretary shall
 require immediately that the employer cease and desist from such activities
 until completion of the process described in subparagraph (D) unless the
 employer files with the Secretary of Labor an attestation under paragraph (1).
 `(D) Under the process established under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall
 provide, within 180 days after the date a complaint is filed (or later for
 good cause shown), for a determination as to whether or not a basis exists
 to make a finding described in subparagraph (E). The Secretary shall provide
 notice of such determination to the interested parties and an opportunity for
 a hearing on the complaint within 60 days of the date of the determination.
 `(E)(i) If the Secretary of Labor finds, after notice and opportunity
 for a hearing, that an entity has failed to meet a condition attested
 to or has made a misrepresentation of material fact in the attestation,
 the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General of such finding and may,
 in addition, impose such other administrative remedies (including civil
 monetary penalties in an amount not to exceed $5,000 for each alien crewman
 performing unauthorized longshore work) as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate. Upon receipt of such notice, the Attorney General shall not
 permit the vessels owned or chartered by such entity to enter any port of
 the United States during a period of up to 1 year.
 `(ii) If the Secretary of Labor finds, after notice and opportunity for a
 hearing, that, in the case described in the last sentence of paragraph (1),
 the performance of the particular activity is not described in subparagraph
 (B)(i), the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General of such finding and,
 thereafter, the attestation described in paragraph (1) shall be required
 of the employer for the performance of the particular activity.
 `(F) A finding by the Secretary of Labor under this paragraph that the
 performance of an activity by alien crewmen is not permitted under the
 prevailing practice of a local port shall preclude for one year the filing of
 a subsequent attestation concerning such activity in the port under paragraph
 (1).
 `(d) RECIPROCITY EXCEPTION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to the determination of the Secretary of State
 pursuant to paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall permit an alien
 crewman to perform an activity constituting longshore work if--
 `(A) the vessel is registered in a country that by law, regulation, or
 in practice does not prohibit such activity by crewmembers aboard United
 States vessels; and
 `(B) nationals of a country (or countries) which by law, regulation, or
 in practice does not prohibit such activity by crewmembers aboard United
 States vessels hold a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel.
 `(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF LIST- The Secretary of State shall, in accordance
 with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, compile and annually
 maintain a list, of longshore work by particular activity, of countries
 where performance of such a particular activity by crewmembers aboard
 United States vessels is prohibited by law, regulation, or in practice in
 the country. By not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of
 this section, the Secretary shall publish a notice of proposed rulemaking
 to establish such list. The Secretary shall first establish such list by
 not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section.
 `(3) IN PRACTICE DEFINED- For purposes of this subsection, the term `in
 practice' refers to an activity normally performed in such country during
 the one-year period preceding the arrival of such vessel into the United
 States or coastal waters thereof.'.
 (2) NO APPLICATION TO CITIZENS OR NATIONALS OF THE UNITED STATES- This
 section does not affect the performance of longshore work in the United
 States by citizens or nationals of the United States.
 (3) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents is amended by inserting after
 the item relating to section 257 the following new item:
`Sec. 258. Limitations on performance of longshore work by alien crewmen.'.
 (b) PENALTIES- Section 251(d) (8 U.S.C. 1281(d)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence by striking `pay to' and all that follows through
 `$10' and inserting `pay to the Commissioner the sum of $200'; and
 (2) by inserting after the first sentence the following: `In the case that
 any owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer of a vessel shall
 secure services of an alien crewman described in section 101(a)(15)(D)(i)
 to perform longshore work not included in the normal operation and service
 on board the vessel under section 258, the owner, agent, charterer, master,
 or commanding officer shall pay to the Commissioner the sum of $5,000,
 and such fine shall be a lien against the vessel.'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 101(a)(15)(D)(i) (8
 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(D)(i)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `any capacity' and inserting `a capacity', and
 (2) by inserting `, as defined in section 258(a)' after `on board a vessel'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 services performed on or after 180 days after the date of the enactment of
 this Act.
SEC. 204. TREATY TRADERS (E NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) INCLUDING TRADE IN SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY- Section 101(a)(15)(E)(i)
 (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(i)) is amended by inserting `, including trade in
 services or trade in technology' after `substantial trade'.
 (b) APPLICATION OF TREATY TRADER FOR CERTAIN FOREIGN STATES- Each of the
 following foreign states shall be considered, for purposes of section
 101(a)(15)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, to be a foreign
 state described in such section if the foreign state extends reciprocal
 nonimmigrant treatment to nationals of the United States:
 (1) The largest foreign state in each region (as defined in section 203(c)(1)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act) which (A) has 1 or more dependent
 areas (as determined for purposes of section 202 of such Act) and (B)
 does not have a treaty of commerce and navigation with the United States.
 (2) The foreign state which (A) was identified as an adversely affected
 foreign state for purposes of section 314 of the Immigration Reform and
 Control Act of 1986 and (B) does not have a treaty of commerce and navigation
 with the United States, but (C) had such a treaty with the United States
 before 1925.
 (c) SUBSTANTIAL DEFINED- Section 101(a), as amended by section 123 of this
 Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(45) The term `substantial' means, for purposes of paragraph (15)(E) with
 reference to trade or capital, such an amount of trade or capital as is
 established by the Secretary of State, after consultation with appropriate
 agencies of Government.'.
SEC. 205. TEMPORARY WORKERS AND TRAINEES (H NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) LIMITATION ON NUMBERS- Section 214 (8 U.S.C. 1184), as amended by
 section 202(a), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1) The total number of aliens who may be issued visas or otherwise
 provided nonimmigrant status during any fiscal year (beginning with fiscal
 year 1992)--
 `(A) under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) may not exceed 65,000,
 `(B) under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) may not exceed 66,000, or
 `(C) under section 101(a)(15)(P)(i) or section 101(a)(15)(P)(iii) may not
 exceed 25,000.
 `(2) The numerical limitations of paragraph (1) shall only apply to principal
 aliens and not to the spouses or children of such aliens.
 `(3) Aliens who are subject to the numerical limitations of paragraph (1)
 shall be issued visas (or otherwise provided nonimmigrant status) in the
 order in which petitions are filed for such visas or status.
 `(4) In the case of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b),
 the period of authorized admission as such a nonimmigrant may not exceed
 6 years.'.
 (b) CONSTRUCTION RESPECTING INTENT WITH RESPECT TO ABANDONMENT OF FOREIGN
 RESIDENCE- Section 214, as amended by section 202(a) and by subsection (a),
 is further amended--
 (1) in subsection (b), by inserting `(other than a nonimmigrant described
 in subparagraph (H)(i) or (L) of section 101(a)(15))' after `Every alien', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h) The fact that an alien is the beneficiary of an application for a
 preference status filed under section 204 or has otherwise sought permanent
 residence in the United States shall not constitute evidence of an intention
 to abandon a foreign residence for purposes of obtaining a visa as a
 nonimmigrant described in subparagraph (H)(i) or (L) of section 101(a)(15)
 or otherwise obtaining or maintaining the status of a nonimmigrant described
 in such subparagraph, if the alien had obtained a change of status under
 section 248 to a classification as such a nonimmigrant before the alien's
 most recent departure from the United States.'.
 (c) REVISION OF H-1B CATEGORY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subclause (b) of section 101(a)(15)(H)(i) (8
 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)) is amended by striking `who is of distinguished'
 and all that follows through `such institution or agency' and inserting the
 following: `who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform services
 (other than services described in subclause (a) during the period in which
 such subclause applies and other than services described in subclause (ii)(a)
 or in subparagraph (O) or (P)) in a specialty occupation described in section
 214(i)(1), who meets the requirements for the occupation specified in section
 214(i)(2), and with respect to whom the Secretary of Labor determines and
 certifies to the Attorney General that the intending employer has filed with,
 and had approved by, the Secretary an application under section 212(n)(1)'.
 (2) SPECIALTY OCCUPATION DEFINED- Section 214, as amended by section 202(a)
 and subsections (a) and (b), is further amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsection:
 `(i)(1) For purposes of section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) and paragraph (2),
 the term `specialty occupation' means an occupation that requires--
 `(A) theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized
 knowledge, and
 `(B) attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree in the specific specialty
 (or its equivalent) as a minimum for entry into the occupation in the
 United States.
 `(2) For purposes of section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b), the requirements of this
 paragraph, with respect to a specialty occupation, are--
 `(A) full state licensure to practice in the occupation, if such licensure
 is required to practice in the occupation,
 `(B) completion of the degree described in paragraph (1)(B) for the
 occupation, or
 `(C)(i) experience in the specialty equivalent to the completion of
 such degree, and (ii) recognition of expertise in the specialty through
 progressively responsible positions relating to the specialty.'.
 (3) LABOR CONDITION APPLICATION FOR H-1B- Section 212 is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsection:
 `(n)(1) No alien may be admitted or provided status as a nonimmigrant
 described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) in an occupational classification
 unless the employer has filed with the Secretary of Labor an application
 stating the following:
 `(A) The employer--
 `(i) is offering and will offer during the period of authorized employment to
 aliens and to other individuals employed in the occupational classification
 and in the area of employment wages that are at least--
 `(I) the actual wage level for the occupational classification at the place
 of employment, or
 `(II) the prevailing wage level for the occupational classification in the
 area of employment,
whichever is greater, determined as of the time of filing the application, and
 `(ii) will provide working conditions for such aliens that will not adversely
 affect the working conditions of workers similarly employed.
 `(B) There is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute in
 the occupational classification at the place of employment.
 `(C) The employer, at the time of filing the application--
 `(i) has provided notice of the filing under this paragraph to the bargaining
 representative (if any) of the employer's employees in the occupational
 classification and area for which aliens are sought, or
 `(ii) if there is no such bargaining representative, has posted notice of
 filing in conspicuous locations at the place of employment.
 `(D) The application shall contain a specification of the number of workers
 sought, the occupational classification in which the workers will be employed,
 and wage rate and conditions under which they will be employed. The employer
 shall make available for public examination, within one working day after
 the date on which an application under this paragraph is filed, at the
 employer's principal place of business or worksite, a copy of each such
 application (and accompanying documentation). The Secretary shall compile,
 on a current basis, a list (by employer and by occupational classification)
 of the applications filed under this subsection. Such list shall include
 the wage rate, number of aliens sought, period of intended employment,
 and date of need. The Secretary shall make such list available for public
 examination in Washington, D.C.
 `(2)(A) The Secretary shall establish a process for the receipt,
 investigation, and disposition of complaints respecting a petitioner's
 failure to meet a condition specified in an application submitted under
 paragraph (1) or a petitioner's misrepresentation of material facts in such an
 application. Complaints may be filed by any aggrieved person or organization
 (including bargaining representatives). No investigation or hearing shall
 be conducted on a complaint concerning such a failure or misrepresentation
 unless the complaint was filed not later than 12 months after the date of the
 failure or misrepresentation, respectively. The Secretary shall conduct an
 investigation under this paragraph if there is reasonable cause to believe
 that such a failure or misrepresentation has occurred.
 `(B) Under such process, the Secretary shall provide, within 30 days after
 the date such a complaint is filed, for a determination as to whether or
 not a reasonable basis exists to make a finding described in subparagraph
 (C). If the Secretary determines that such a reasonable basis exists,
 the Secretary shall provide for notice of such determination to the
 interested parties and an opportunity for a hearing on the complaint,
 in accordance with section 556 of title 5, United States Code, within 60
 days after the date of the determination. If such a hearing is requested,
 the Secretary shall make a finding concerning the matter by not later than
 60 days after the date of the hearing. In the case of similar complaints
 respecting the same applicant, the Secretary may consolidate the hearings
 under this subparagraph on such complaints.
 `(C) If the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing,
 a failure to meet a condition (or a substantial failure in the case of
 a condition described in subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (1)) or
 misrepresentation of material fact in an application--
 `(i) the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General of such finding and
 may, in addition, impose such other administrative remedies (including
 civil monetary penalties in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation)
 as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, and
 `(ii) the Attorney General shall not approve petitions filed with respect
 to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) during a period of at least
 1 year for aliens to be employed by the employer.
 `(D) In addition to the sanctions provided under subparagraph (C), if the
 Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that an employer
 has not paid wages at the wage level specified under the application and
 required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall order the employer to
 provide for payment of such amounts of back pay as may be required to comply
 with the requirements of paragraph (1).'.
 (d) LIMITATION ON TRAINEES- Section 101(a)(15)(H)(iii) (8
 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(iii)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon
 at the end the following: `, in a training program that is not designed
 primarily to provide productive employment'.
 (e) REMOVAL OF FOREIGN RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT FOR H-1 NONIMMIGRANTS- Section
 101(a)(15)(H) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `having a residence in a foreign country which he has no
 intention of abandoning';
 (2) in clause (ii), by striking `who is coming temporarily to the United
 States (a)' and inserting `(a) having a residence in a foreign country
 which he has no intention of abandoning who is coming temporarily to the
 United States';
 (3) in clause (ii)(b), by inserting `having a residence in a foreign country
 which he has no intention of abandoning who is coming temporarily to the
 United States' immediately after `(b)'; and
 (4) in clause (iii), by inserting `having a residence in a foreign country
 which he has no intention of abandoning' after `(iii)'.
SEC. 206. INTRA-COMPANY TRANSFEREES (L NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING FIRMS-
 In applying sections 101(a)(15)(L) and 203(b)(1)(C) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act, in the case of a partnership that is organized in the
 United States to provide accounting services and that markets its accounting
 services under an internationally recognized name under an agreement with
 a worldwide coordinating organization that is owned and controlled by the
 member accounting firms, a partnership (or similar organization) that is
 organized outside the United States to provide accounting services shall
 be considered to be an affiliate of the United States partnership if it
 markets its accounting services under the same internationally recognized
 name under the agreement with the worldwide coordinating organization of
 which the United States partnership is also a member.
 (b) USE OF BLANKET PETITIONS; DEADLINES FOR PROCESSING; PERIODS OF AUTHORIZED
 STAY; CONSTRUCTION- Section 214(c) (8 U.S.C. 1184(c)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) The Attorney General shall provide for a procedure under which an
 importing employer which meets requirements established by the Attorney
 General may file a blanket petition to import aliens as nonimmigrants
 described in section 101(a)(15)(L) instead of filing individuals petitions
 under paragraph (1) to import such aliens. Such procedure shall permit
 the expedited processing of visas for entry of aliens covered under such
 a petition.
 `(B) For purposes of section 101(a)(15)(L), an alien is considered to be
 serving in a capacity involving specialized knowledge with respect to a
 company if the alien has a special knowledge of the company product and its
 application in international markets or has an advanced level of knowledge
 of processes and procedures of the company.
 `(C) The Attorney General shall provide a process for reviewing and acting
 upon petitions under this subsection with respect to nonimmigrants described
 in section 101(a)(15)(L) within 30 days after the date a completed petition
 has been filed.
 `(D) The period of authorized admission for--
 `(i) a nonimmigrant admitted to render services in a managerial or executive
 capacity under section 101(a)(15)(L) shall not exceed 7 years, or
 `(ii) a nonimmigrant admitted to render services in a capacity that involved
 specialized knowledge under section 101(a)(15)(L) shall not exceed 5 years.'.
 (c) PERIOD OF PRIOR EMPLOYMENT WITH COMPANY- Section 101(a)(15)(L) (8
 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(L)) is amended by striking `immediately preceding'
 and inserting `within 3 years preceding'.
SEC. 207. NEW CLASSIFICATION FOR ALIENS WITH EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY,
ACCOMPANYING ALIENS, AND ATHLETES AND ENTERTAINERS (O & P NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 101(a)(15) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (M),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (N) and inserting a
 semicolon, and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(O) an alien who--
 `(i) has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or
 athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international
 acclaim or, with regard to motion picture and television productions a
 demonstrated record of extraordinary achievement, and whose achievements have
 been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and seeks to
 enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability,
 but only if the Attorney General determines that the alien's entry into the
 United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States; or
 `(ii)(I) seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the
 purpose of accompanying and assisting in the artistic or athletic performance
 by an alien who is admitted under clause (i) for a specific event or events,
 `(II) is an integral part of such actual performance,
 `(III)(a) has critical skills and experience with such alien which are not
 of a general nature and which cannot be performed by other individuals, or
 (b) in the case of a motion picture or television production, has skills and
 experience with such alien which are not of a general nature and which are
 critical either based on a pre-existing longstanding working relationship
 or, with respect to the specific production, because significant principal
 photography will take place both inside and outside the United States and
 the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful
 completion of the production, and
 `(IV) has a foreign residence which the alien has no intention of abandoning;
 or
 `(iii) is the alien spouse or child of an alien described in clause (i) or
 (ii) and is accompanying, or following to join, the alien; or
 `(P) an alien having a foreign residence which the alien has no intention
 of abandoning who--
 `(i)(I) performs as an athlete, individually or as part of a group or team,
 at an internationally recognized level of performance, or performs as part
 of an entertainment group that has been recognized internationally as being
 outstanding in the discipline for a sustained and substantial period of
 time and has had a sustained and substantial relationship with that group
 over a period of at least 1 year and provides functions integral to the
 performance of the group, and
 `(II) seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the purpose
 of performing as such an athlete or entertainer with respect to a specific
 athletic competition or performance;
 `(ii)(I) performs as an artist or entertainer, individually or as part of
 a group, or is an integral part of the performance of such a group, and
 `(II) seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the
 purpose of performing as such an artist or entertainer or with such a
 group under a reciprocal exchange program which is between an organization
 or organizations in the United States and an organization in one or more
 foreign states and which provides for the temporary exchange of artists
 and entertainers, or groups of artists and entertainers, between the United
 States and the foreign states involved;
 `(iii)(I) performs as an artist or entertainer, individually or as part of
 a group, or is an integral part of the performance of such a group, and
 `(II) seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the purpose
 of performing as such an artist or entertainer or with such a group under
 a program that is culturally unique; or
 `(iv) is the spouse or child of an alien described in clause (i), (ii), or
 (iii) and is accompanying, or following to join, the alien.'.
 (b) PERIODS OF ADMISSION, ETC- Section 214 (8 U.S.C. 1184) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `(1)' after `(a)' and by adding at the
 end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) The period of authorized status as a nonimmigrant under section
 101(a)(15)(O) shall be for such period as the Attorney General may specify
 in order to provide for the event for which the nonimmigrant is admitted.
 `(B)(i) The period of authorized status as a nonimmigrant described in
 section 101(a)(15)(P) shall be for such period as the Attorney General may
 specify in order to provide for the competition, event, or performance for
 which the nonimmigrant is admitted. In the case of nonimmigrants admitted as
 individual athletes under section 101(a)(15)(P), the period of authorized
 status may be for an initial period (not to exceed 5 years) during which
 the nonimmigrant will perform as an athlete and such period may be extended
 by the Attorney General for an additional period of up to 5 years.
 `(ii) An alien who is admitted as a nonimmigrant under clause (ii) or (iii)
 of section 101(a)(15)(P) may not be readmitted as such a nonimmigrant unless
 the alien has remained outside the United States for at least 3 months after
 the date of the most recent admission. The Attorney General may waive the
 application of the previous sentence in the case of individual tours in
 which the application would work an undue hardship.'; and
 (2) in subsection (c), as amended by section 206(b)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `or (L)' and inserting `, (L), (O), or
 (P)(i)', and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(3) The Attorney General shall approve a petition--
 `(A) with respect to a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(O)(i)
 only after consultation with peer groups in the area of the alien's ability
 or, with respect to aliens seeking entry for a motion picture or television
 production, after consultation with the appropriate union representing the
 alien's occupational peers and a management organization in the area of
 the alien's ability, or
 `(B) with respect to a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(O)(ii)
 after consultation with labor organizations with expertise in the skill
 area involved.
In the case of an alien seeking entry for a motion picture or television
production, (i) any opinion under the previous sentence shall only be advisory,
(ii) any such opinion that recommends denial must be in writing, (iii) in
making the decision the Attorney General shall consider the exigencies and
scheduling of the production, and (iv) the Attorney General shall append to
the decision any such opinion.
 `(4)(A) A person may petition the Attorney General for classification of
 an alien as a nonimmigrant under clause (ii) of section 101(a)(15)(P).
 `(B) The Attorney General shall approve petitions under this subsection
 with respect to nonimmigrants described in clause (i) or (iii) of section
 101(a)(15)(P) only after consultation with labor organizations with expertise
 in the specific field of athletics or entertainment involved.
 `(C) The Attorney General shall approve petitions under this subsection for
 nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(P)(ii) only after consultation
 with labor organizations representing artists and entertainers in the United
 States, in order to assure reciprocity in fact with foreign states.
 `(5) In the case of an alien who is provided nonimmigrant status under section
 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) or 101(H)(ii)(b) and who is dismissed from employment
 by the employer before the end of the period of authorized admission, the
 employer shall be liable for the reasonable costs of return transportation
 of the alien abroad.
 `(6) If a petition is filed and denied under this subsection, the Attorney
 General shall notify the petitioner of the determination and the reasons
 for the denial and of the process by which the petitioner may appeal the
 determination.'.
 (c) WORK AUTHORIZATION DURING PENDING LABOR DISPUTES- (1) In the
 case of an alien admitted as a nonimmigrant (other than under section
 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a)) and who is authorized to be employed in an occupation,
 if nonimmigrants constitute a majority of the members of the bargaining
 unit in the occupation, during the period of any strike or lockout in the
 occupation with the employer which strike or lockout is pending on the date
 of the enactment of this Act the alien--
 (A) continues to be authorized to be employed in the occupation for that
 employer, and
 (B) is authorized to be employed in any occupation for any other employer
 so long as such strike or lockout continues with respect to that occupation
 and employer.
 (2) In the case of an alien admitted as a nonimmigrant  (other than under
 section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a)) and who is authorized to be employed in an
 occupation, if nonimmigrants do not constitute a majority of the members
 of the bargaining unit in the occupation, during the period of any strike
 or lockout in the occupation with the employer which strike or lockout is
 pending on the date of the enactment of this Act the alien--
 (A) is not authorized to be employed in the occupation for that employer, and
 (B) is authorized to be employed in any occupation for any other employer
 so long as there is no strike or lockout with respect to that occupation
 and employer.
 (3) With respect to a nonimmigrant described in paragraph (1) or (2) who does
 not perform unauthorized employment, any limit on the period of authorized
 stay shall be extended by the period of the strike or lockout, except that any
 such extension may not continue beyond the maximum authorized period of stay.
 (4) The provisions of this subsection shall take effect on the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
SEC. 208. NEW CLASSIFICATION FOR INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS
(Q NONIMMIGRANTS).
 Section 101(a)(15) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)), as amended by section 207(a),
 is further amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (O),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (P) and inserting `;
 or', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(Q) an alien having a residence in a foreign country which he has no
 intention of abandoning who is coming temporarily (for a period not to
 exceed 15 months) to the United States as a participant in an international
 cultural exchange program designated by the Attorney General for the purpose
 of providing practical training, employment, and the sharing of the history,
 culture, and traditions of the country of the alien's nationality and who will
 be employed under the same wages and working conditions as domestic workers.'.
SEC. 209. NEW CLASSIFICATION FOR ALIENS IN RELIGIOUS OCCUPATIONS (R
NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 101(a)(15) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)), as amended by
 sections 207(a) and 208, is further amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (P),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (Q) and inserting `;
 or', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(R) an alien, and the spouse and children of the alien if accompanying or
 following to join the alien, who--
 `(i) for the 2 years immediately preceding the time of application for
 admission, has been a member of a religious denomination having a bona fide
 nonprofit, religious organization in the United States; and
 `(ii) seeks to enter the United States for a period not to exceed 5 years
 to perform the work described in subclause (I), (II), or (III) of paragraph
 (27)(C)(ii).'.
 (b) REFERENCE TO REVISION OF SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROVISIONS- For provision
 providing special immigrant status for certain aliens in religious
 occupations, see section 151.
Subtitle B--Temporary or Limited Provisions
SEC. 221. OFF-CAMPUS WORK AUTHORIZATION FOR STUDENTS (F NONIMMIGRANTS).
 (a) 3-YEAR PROVISION- With respect to work authorization for aliens admitted
 as nonimmigrant students described in subparagraph (F) of section 101(a)(15)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act during the 3-year period beginning
 October 1, 1991, the Attorney General shall grant such an alien work
 authorization to be employed in a position unrelated to the alien's field
 of study and off-campus if--
 (1) the alien has completed 1 year as such a nonimmigrant and is maintaining
 good academic standing at the educational institution,
 (2) the employer provides the educational institution and the Secretary of
 Labor with an attestation that the employer (A) has recruited for at least
 60 days for the position and (B) will provide for payment to the alien and to
 other similarly situated workers at a rate equal to not less than the actual
 wage level for the occupation at the place of employment or, if greater,
 the prevailing wage level for the occupation in the area of employment, and
 (3) the alien will not be employed more than 20 hours each week during the
 academic term (but may be employed on a full-time basis during vacation
 periods and between academic terms).
If the Secretary of Labor determines that an employer has provided an
attestation under paragraph (2) that is materially false or has failed to
pay wages in accordance with the attestation, after notice and opportunity
for a hearing, the employer shall be disqualified from employing an alien
student under this subsection.
 (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than April 1, 1994, the Commissioner of
 Immigration and Naturalization shall prepare and submit to the Congress on--
 (1) whether the program of work authorization under subsection (a) should
 be extended, and
 (2) the impact of such program on prevailing wages of workers.
SEC. 222. ADMISSION OF NONIMMIGRANTS FOR COOPERATIVE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
AND COPRODUCTION PROJECTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, the
 Attorney General shall provide for nonimmigrant status in the case of an
 alien who--
 (1) has a residence in a foreign country which the alien has no intention
 of abandoning, and
 (2) is coming to the United States, upon a basis of reciprocity, to perform
 services of an exceptional nature requiring such merit and ability relating
 to a cooperative research and development project or a coproduction project
 provided under a government-to-government agreement administered by the
 Secretary of Defense, but not to exceed a period of more than 10 years,
or who is the spouse or minor child of such an alien if accompanying or
following to join the alien.
 (b) NUMERICAL LIMITATION- The number of aliens who may be admitted as (or
 otherwise be provided the status of) a nonimmigrant under this section at
 any time may not exceed 100.
SEC. 223. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL EDUCATION EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), the Attorney General shall
 provide for nonimmigrant status in the case of an alien who--
 (1) has a residence in a foreign country which the alien has no intention
 of abandoning, and
 (2) is coming temporarily to the United States (for a period not to exceed
 18 months) as a participant in a special education training program which
 provides for practical training and experience in the education of children
 with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.
 (b) NUMERICAL LIMITATION- The number of aliens who may be admitted as (or
 otherwise be provided the status of) a nonimmigrant under this section in
 any fiscal year may not exceed 50.
Subtitle C--Effective Dates
SEC. 231. EFFECTIVE DATES.
 Except as otherwise provided in this title, this title, and the amendments
 made by this title, shall take effect on October 1, 1991, except that sections
 222 and 223 shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE III--FAMILY UNITY AND TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS
SEC. 301. FAMILY UNITY.
 (a) TEMPORARY STAY OF DEPORTATION AND WORK AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN ELIGIBLE
 IMMIGRANTS- The Attorney General shall provide that in the case of an alien
 who is an eligible immigrant (as defined in subsection (b)(1)) as of May 5,
 1988, who has entered the United States before such date, who resided in the
 United States on such date, and who is not lawfully admitted for permanent
 residence, the alien--
 (1) may not be deported or otherwise required to depart from the United
 States on a ground specified in paragraph  (1), (2), (5), (9), or (12) of
 section 241(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (other than so much of
 section 241(a)(1) of such Act as relates to a ground of exclusion described
 in paragraph (9), (10), (23), (27), (28), (29), or (33) of section 212(a)
 of such Act), and
 (2) shall be granted authorization to engage in employment in the United
 States and be provided an `employment authorized' endorsement or other
 appropriate work permit.
 (b) ELIGIBLE IMMIGRANT AND LEGALIZED ALIEN DEFINED- In this section:
 (1) The term `eligible immigrant' means a qualified immigrant who is the
 spouse or unmarried child of a legalized alien.
 (2) The term `legalized alien' means an alien lawfully admitted for temporary
 or permanent residence who was provided--
 (A) temporary or permanent residence status under section 210 of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act,
 (B) temporary or permanent residence status under section 245A of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act, or
 (C) permanent residence status under section 202 of the Immigration Reform
 and Control Act of 1986.
 (c) APPLICATION OF DEFINITIONS- Except as otherwise specifically provided in
 this section, the definitions contained in the Immigration and Nationality
 Act shall apply in the administration of this section.
 (d) TEMPORARY DISQUALIFICATION FROM CERTAIN PUBLIC WELFARE ASSISTANCE-
 Aliens provided the benefits of this section by virtue of their relation to
 a legalized alien described in subsection (b)(2)(A) or (b)(2)(B) shall be
 ineligible for public welfare assistance in the same manner and for the same
 period as the legalized alien is ineligible for such assistance under section
 245A(h) or 210(f), respectively, of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
 (e) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN ALIENS- An alien is not eligible for the benefits
 of this section if the Attorney General finds that--
 (1) the alien has been convicted of a felony or 3 or more misdemeanors in
 the United States, or
 (2) the alien is described in section 243(h)(2) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act.
 (f) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing
 an alien to apply for admission to, or to be admitted to, the United States
 in order to obtain benefits under this section.
 (g) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect on October 1, 1991; except
 that the delay in effectiveness of this section shall not be construed as
 reflecting a Congressional belief that the existing family fairness program
 should be modified in any way before such date.
SEC. 302. TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Immigration and Nationality Act is amended by inserting
 after section 244 the following new section:
`TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS
 `SEC. 244A. (a) GRANTING OF STATUS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of an alien who is a national of a foreign
 state designated under subsection (b) and who meets the requirements of
 subsection (c), the Attorney General, in accordance with this section--
 `(A) may grant the alien temporary protected status in the United States
 and shall not deport the alien from the United States during the period in
 which such status is in effect, and
 `(B) shall authorize the alien to engage in employment in the United States
 and provide the alien with an `employment authorized' endorsement or other
 appropriate work permit.
 `(2) DURATION OF WORK AUTHORIZATION- Work authorization provided under this
 section shall be effective throughout the period the alien is in temporary
 protected status under this section.
 `(3) NOTICE-
 `(A) Upon the granting of temporary protected status under this section,
 the Attorney General shall provide the alien with information concerning
 such status under this section.
 `(B) If, at the time of initiation of a deportation proceeding against an
 alien, the foreign state (of which the alien is a national) is designated
 under subsection (b), the Attorney General shall promptly notify the alien
 of the temporary protected status that may be available under this section.
 `(C) If, at the time of designation of a foreign state under subsection (b),
 an alien (who is a national of such state) is in a deportation proceeding
 under this title, the Attorney General shall promptly notify the alien of
 the temporary protected status that may be available under this section.
 `(D) Notices under this paragraph shall be provided in a form and language
 that the alien can understand.
 `(4) Temporary treatment for eligible aliens-
 `(A) In the case of an alien who can establish a prima facie case
 of eligibility for benefits under paragraph (1), but for the fact that
 the period of registration under subsection (c)(1)(A)(iv) has not begun,
 until the alien has had a reasonable opportunity to register during the
 first 30 days of such period, the Attorney General shall provide for the
 benefits of paragraph (1).
 `(B) In the case of an alien who establishes a prima facie case of eligibility
 for benefits under paragraph (1), until a final determination with respect
 to the alien's eligibility for such benefits under paragraph (1) has been
 made, the alien shall be provided such benefits.
 `(5) CLARIFICATION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing
 the Attorney General to deny temporary protected status to an alien based
 on the alien's immigration status or to require any alien, as a condition
 of being granted such status, either to relinquish nonimmigrant or other
 status the alien may have or to execute any waiver of other rights under
 this Act. The granting of temporary protected status under this section
 shall not be considered to be inconsistent with the granting of nonimmigrant
 status under this Act.
 `(b) DESIGNATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General, after consultation with appropriate
 agencies of the Government, may designate any foreign state (or any part
 of such foreign state) under this subsection only if--
 `(A) the Attorney General finds that there is an ongoing armed conflict
 within the state and, due to such conflict, requiring the return of aliens
 who are nationals of that state to that state (or to the part of the state)
 would pose a serious threat to their personal safety;
 `(B) the Attorney General finds that--
 `(i) there has been an earthquake, flood, drought, epidemic, or other
 environmental disaster in the state resulting in a substantial, but temporary,
 disruption of living conditions in the area affected,
 `(ii) the foreign state is unable, temporarily, to handle adequately the
 return to the state of aliens who are nationals of the state, and
 `(iii) the foreign state officially has requested designation under this
 subparagraph; or
 `(C) the Attorney General finds that there exist extraordinary and temporary
 conditions in the foreign state that prevent aliens who are nationals of
 the state from returning to the state in safety, unless the Attorney General
 finds that permitting the aliens to remain temporarily in the United States
 is contrary to the national interest of the United States.
A designation of a foreign state (or part of such foreign state) under
this paragraph shall not become effective unless notice of the designation
(including a statement of the findings under this paragraph and the effective
date of the designation) is published in the Federal Register. In such notice,
the Attorney General shall also state an estimate of the number of nationals
of the foreign state designated who are (or within the effective period
of the designation are likely to become) eligible for temporary protected
status under this section and their immigration status in the United States.
 `(2) EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF DESIGNATION FOR FOREIGN STATES- The designation
 of a foreign state (or part of such foreign state) under paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) take effect upon the date of publication of the designation under such
 paragraph, or such later date as the Attorney General may specify in the
 notice published under such paragraph, and
 `(B) shall remain in effect until the effective date of the termination of
 the designation under paragraph (3)(B).
For purposes of this section, the initial period of designation of a foreign
state (or part thereof) under paragraph (1) is the period, specified by the
Attorney General, of not less than 6 months and not more than 18 months.
 `(3) PERIODIC REVIEW, TERMINATIONS, AND EXTENSIONS OF DESIGNATIONS-
 `(A) PERIODIC REVIEW- At least 60 days before end of the initial period of
 designation, and any extended period of designation, of a foreign state (or
 part thereof) under this section the Attorney General, after consultation
 with appropriate agencies of the Government, shall review the conditions in
 the foreign state (or part of such foreign state) for which a designation is
 in effect under this subsection and shall determine whether the conditions
 for such designation under this subsection continue to be met. The Attorney
 General shall provide on a timely basis for the publication of notice of
 each such determination (including the basis for the determination, and,
 in the case of an affirmative determination, the period of extension of
 designation under subparagraph (C)) in the Federal Register.
 `(B) TERMINATION OF DESIGNATION- If the Attorney General determines under
 subparagraph (A) that a foreign state (or part of such foreign state) no
 longer continues to meet the conditions for designation under paragraph
 (1), the Attorney General shall terminate the designation by publishing
 notice in the Federal Register of the determination under this subparagraph
 (including the basis for the determination). Such termination is effective
 in accordance with subsection (d)(3), but shall not be effective earlier
 than 60 days after the date the notice is published or, if later, the
 expiration of the most recent previous extension under subparagraph (C).
 `(C) EXTENSION OF DESIGNATION- If the Attorney General does not determine
 under subparagraph (A) that a foreign state (or part of such foreign state)
 no longer meets the conditions for designation under paragraph (1), the
 period of designation of the foreign state is extended for an additional
 period of 6 months (or, in the discretion of the Attorney General, a period
 of 12 or 18 months).
 `(4) INFORMATION CONCERNING PROTECTED STATUS AT TIME OF DESIGNATIONS-
 At the time of a designation of a foreign state under this subsection,
 the Attorney General shall make available information respecting the
 temporary protected status made available to aliens who are nationals of
 such designated foreign state.
 `(5) REVIEW-
 `(A) DESIGNATIONS- There is no judicial review of any determination of
 the Attorney General with respect to the designation, or termination or
 extension of a designation, of a foreign state under this subsection.
 `(B) APPLICATION TO INDIVIDUALS- The Attorney General shall establish
 an administrative procedure for the review of the denial of benefits to
 aliens under this subsection. Such procedure shall not prevent an alien
 from asserting protection under this section in deportation proceedings if
 the alien demonstrates that the alien is a national of a state designated
 under paragraph (1).
 `(c) ALIENS ELIGIBLE FOR TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL-
 `(A) NATIONALS OF DESIGNATED FOREIGN STATES- Subject to paragraph (3),
 an alien, who is a national of a state designated under subsection (b)(1),
 meets the requirements of this paragraph only if--
 `(i) the alien has been continuously physically present in the United States
 since the effective date of the most recent designation of that state;
 `(ii) the alien has continuously resided in the United States since such
 date as the Attorney General may designate;
 `(iii) the alien is admissible as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided
 under paragraph (2)(A), and is not ineligible for temporary protected status
 under paragraph (2)(B); and
 `(iv) to the extent and in a manner which the Attorney General establishes,
 the alien registers for the temporary protected status under this section
 during a registration period of not less than 180 days.
 `(B) REGISTRATION FEE- The Attorney General may require payment of a
 reasonable fee as a condition of registering an alien under subparagraph
 (A)(iv) (including providing an alien with an `employment authorized'
 endorsement or other appropriate work permit under this section). The amount
 of any such fee shall not exceed $50.
 `(2) ELIGIBILITY STANDARDS-
 `(A) WAIVER OF CERTAIN GROUNDS FOR INADMISSIBILITY- In the determination of an
 alien's admissibility for purposes of subparagraph (A)(iii) of paragraph (1)--
 `(i) the provisions of paragraphs (14), (15), (20), (21), (25), and (32)
 of section 212(a) shall not apply;
 `(ii) except as provided in clause (iii), the Attorney General may waive
 any other provision of section 212(a) in the case of individual aliens for
 humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in
 the public interest; but
 `(iii) the Attorney General may not waive--
 `(I) paragraphs (9) and (10) (relating to criminals) of such section,
 `(II) paragraph (23) of such section (relating to drug offenses), except
 for so much of such paragraph as relates to a single offense of simple
 possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana,
 `(III) paragraphs (27) and (29) of such section (relating to national
 security), or
 `(IV) paragraph (33) of such section (relating to those who assisted in
 the Nazi persecution).
 `(B) ALIENS INELIGIBLE- An alien shall not be eligible for temporary
 protected status under this section if the Attorney General finds that--
 `(i) the alien has been convicted of any felony or 2 or more misdemeanors
 committed in the United States, or
 `(ii) the alien is described in section 243(h)(2).
 `(3) WITHDRAWAL OF TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS- The Attorney General shall
 withdraw temporary protected status granted to an alien under this section
 if--
 `(A) the Attorney General finds that the alien was not in fact eligible
 for such status under this section,
 `(B) except as provided in paragraph (4) and permitted in subsection (f)(3),
 the alien has not remained continuously physically present in the United
 States from the date the alien first was granted temporary protected status
 under this section, or
 `(C) the alien fails, without good cause, to register with the Attorney
 General annually, at the end of each 12-month period after the granting of
 such status, in a form and manner specified by the Attorney General.
 `(4) TREATMENT OF BRIEF, CASUAL, AND INNOCENT DEPARTURES AND CERTAIN OTHER
 ABSENCES-
 `(A) For purposes of paragraphs (1)(A)(i) and (3)(B), an alien shall not
 be considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in
 the United States by virtue of brief, casual, and innocent absences from
 the United States, without regard to whether such absences were authorized
 by the Attorney General.
 `(B) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(ii), an alien shall not be considered
 to have failed to maintain continuous residence in the United States by
 reason of a brief, casual, and innocent absence described in subparagraph
 (A) or due merely to a brief temporary trip abroad required by emergency
 or extenuating circumstances outside the control of the alien.
 `(5) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing
 an alien to apply for admission to, or to be admitted to, the United States
 in order to apply for temporary protected status under this section.
 `(6) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION- The Attorney General shall establish
 procedures to protect the confidentiality of information provided by aliens
 under this section.
 `(d) DOCUMENTATION-
 `(1) INITIAL ISSUANCE- Upon the granting of temporary protected status
 to an alien under this section, the Attorney General shall provide for
 the issuance of such temporary documentation and authorization as may be
 necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
 `(2) PERIOD OF VALIDITY- Subject to paragraph (3), such documentation shall
 be valid during the initial period of designation of the foreign state (or
 part thereof) involved and any extension of such period. The Attorney General
 may stagger the periods of validity of the documentation and authorization
 in order to provide for an orderly renewal of such documentation and
 authorization and for an orderly transition (under paragraph (3)) upon
 the termination of a designation of a foreign state (or any part of such
 foreign state).
 `(3) EFFECTIVE DATE OF TERMINATIONS- If the Attorney General terminates
 the designation of a foreign state (or part of such foreign state) under
 subsection (b)(3)(B), such termination shall only apply to documentation
 and authorization issued or renewed after the effective date of the
 publication of notice of the determination under that subsection (or, at
 the Attorney General's option, after such period after the effective date
 of the determination as the Attorney General determines to be appropriate
 in order to provide for an orderly transition).
 `(4) DETENTION OF THE ALIEN- An alien provided temporary protected status
 under this section shall not be detained by the Attorney General on the
 basis of the alien's immigration status in the United States.
 `(e) RELATION OF PERIOD OF TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS TO SUSPENSION OF
 DEPORTATION- With respect to an alien granted temporary protected status under
 this section, the period of such status shall not be counted as a period
 of physical presence in the United States for purposes of section 244(a),
 unless the Attorney General determines that extreme hardship exists. Such
 period shall not cause a break in the continuity of residence of the period
 before and after such period for purposes of such section.
 `(f) BENEFITS AND STATUS DURING PERIOD OF TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS-
 During a period in which an alien is granted temporary protected status
 under this section--
 `(1) the alien shall not be considered to be permanently residing in the
 United States under color of law;
 `(2) the alien may be deemed ineligible for public assistance by a State
 (as defined in section 101(a)(36)) or any political subdivision thereof
 which furnishes such assistance;
 `(3) the alien may travel abroad with the prior consent of the Attorney
 General; and
 `(4) for purposes of adjustment of status under section 245 and change
 of status under section 248, the alien shall be considered as being in,
 and maintaining, lawful status as a nonimmigrant.
 `(g) EXCLUSIVE REMEDY- Except as otherwise specifically provided, this section
 shall constitute the exclusive authority of the Attorney General under law to
 permit aliens who are or may become otherwise deportable or have been paroled
 into the United States to remain in the United States temporarily because
 of their particular nationality or region of foreign state of nationality.
 `(h) LIMITATION ON CONSIDERATION IN THE SENATE OF LEGISLATION ADJUSTING
 STATUS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall not be in
 order in the Senate to consider any bill, resolution, or amendment that--
 `(A) provides for adjustment to lawful temporary or permanent resident
 alien status for any alien receiving temporary protected status under this
 section, or
 `(B) has the effect of amending this subsection or limiting the application
 of this subsection.
 `(2) SUPERMAJORITY REQUIRED- Paragraph (1) may be waived or suspended in the
 Senate only by the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members duly chosen
 and sworn. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate
 duly chosen and sworn shall be required in the Senate to sustain an appeal
 of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised under paragraph (1).
 `(3) RULES- Paragraphs (1) and (2) are enacted--
 `(A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and as such they are
 deemed a part of the rules of the Senate, but applicable only with respect
 to the matters described in paragraph (1) and supersede other rules of the
 Senate only to the extent that such paragraphs are inconsistent therewith; and
 `(B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of the Senate to
 change such rules at any time, in the same manner as in the case of any
 other rule of the Senate.
 `(i) ANNUAL REPORT AND REVIEW-
 `(1) ANNUAL REPORT- Not later than March 1 of each year (beginning with 1992),
 the Attorney General, after consultation with the appropriate agencies of
 the Government, shall submit a report to the Committees on the Judiciary
 of the House of Representatives and of the Senate on the operation of this
 section during the previous year. Each report shall include--
 `(A) a listing of the foreign states or parts thereof designated under
 this section,
 `(B) the number of nationals of each such state who have been granted
 temporary protected status under this section and their immigration status
 before being granted such status, and
 `(C) an explanation of the reasons why foreign states or parts thereof were
 designated under subsection (b)(1) and, with respect to foreign states or
 parts thereof previously designated, why the designation was terminated or
 extended under subsection (b)(3).
 `(2) COMMITTEE REPORT- No later than 180 days after the date of receipt of
 such a report, the Committee on the Judiciary of each  House of Congress
 shall report to its respective House such oversight findings and legislation
 as it deems appropriate.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents of such Act is amended by
 inserting after the item relating to section 244 the following new item:
`Sec. 244A. Temporary protected status.'.
 (c) NO AFFECT ON EXECUTIVE ORDER 12711- Notwithstanding subsection (g)
 of section 244A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (inserted by the
 amendment made by subsection (a)), such section shall not supercede or affect
 Executive Order 12711 (April 11, 1990, relating to policy implementation
 with respect to nationals of the People's Republic of China).
SEC. 303. SPECIAL TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS FOR SALVADORANS.
 (a) DESIGNATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- El Salvador is hereby designated under section 244A(b) of the
 Immigration and Nationality Act, subject to the provisions of this section.
 (2) PERIOD OF DESIGNATION- Such designation shall take effect on the date
 of the enactment of this section and shall remain in effect until the end
 of the 18-month period beginning January 1, 1991.
 (b) ALIENS ELIGIBLE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In applying section 244A of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act pursuant to the designation under this section, subject to section
 244A(c)(3) of such Act, an alien who is a national of El Salvador meets
 the requirements of section 244A(c)(1) of such Act only if--
 (A) the alien has been continuously physically present in the United States
 since September 19, 1990;
 (B) the alien is admissible as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided
 under section 244A(c)(2)(A) of such Act, and is not ineligible for temporary
 protected status under section 244A(c)(2)(B) of such Act; and
 (C) in a manner which the Attorney General shall establish, the alien
 registers for temporary protected status under this section during the
 registration period beginning January 1, 1991, and ending June 30, 1991.
 (2) REGISTRATION FEE- The Attorney General shall require payment of
 a reasonable fee as a condition of registering an alien under paragraph
 (1)(C) (including providing an alien with an `employment authorized'
 endorsement or other appropriate work permit under this section). The amount
 of the fee shall be sufficient to cover the costs of administration of this
 section. Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, all
 such registration fees collected shall be credited to the appropriation to
 be used in carrying out this section.
 (c) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in this subsection, the provisions of
 section 244A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (including subsection
 (h) thereof) shall apply to El Salvador (and aliens provided temporary
 protected status) under this section in the same manner as they apply to a
 foreign state designated (and aliens provided temporary protected status)
 under such section.
 (2) PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE- Subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1),
 (c)(4), (d)(3), and (i) of such section 244A shall not apply under this
 section.
 (3) 6-MONTH PERIOD OF REGISTRATION AND WORK AUTHORIZATION- Notwithstanding
 section 244A(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the work
 authorization provided under this section shall be effective for periods of
 6 months. In applying section 244A(c)(3)(C) of such Act under this section,
 `semiannually, at the end of each 6-month period' shall be substituted for
 `annually, at the end of each 12-month period' and, notwithstanding section
 244A(d)(2) of such Act, the period of validity of documentation under this
 section shall be 6 months.
 (4) REENTRY PERMITTED AFTER DEPARTURE FOR EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES- In
 applying section 244A(f)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act under
 this section, the Attorney General shall provide for advance parole in
 the case of an alien provided special temporary protected status under
 this section if the alien establishes to the satisfaction of the Attorney
 General that emergency and extenuating circumstances beyond the control of
 the alien requires the alien to depart for a brief, temporary trip abroad.
 (d) ENFORCEMENT OF REQUIREMENT TO DEPART AT TIME OF TERMINATION OF
 DESIGNATION-
 (1) SHOW CAUSE ORDER AT TIME OF FINAL REGISTRATION- At the registration
 occurring under this section closest to the date of termination of the
 designation of El Salvador under subsection (a), the Immigration and
 Naturalization Service shall serve on the alien granted temporary protected
 status an order to show cause that establishes a date for deportation
 proceedings which is after the date of such termination of designation. If El
 Salvador is subsequently designated under section 244A(b) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act, the Service shall cancel such orders.
 (2) SANCTION FOR FAILURE TO APPEAR- If an alien is provided an order to show
 cause under paragraph (1) and fails to appear at such proceedings, except
 for exceptional circumstances, the alien may be deported in absentia under
 section 242B of the Immigration and Nationality Act (inserted by section
 545(a) of this Act) and certain discretionary forms of relief are no longer
 available to the alien pursuant to such section.
TITLE IV--NATURALIZATION
SEC. 401. ADMINISTRATIVE NATURALIZATION.
 (a) NATURALIZATION AUTHORITY- Section 310 (8 U.S.C. 1421) is amended to
 read as follows:
`NATURALIZATION AUTHORITY
 `SEC. 310. (a) AUTHORITY IN ATTORNEY GENERAL- The sole authority to
 naturalize persons as citizens of the United States is conferred upon the
 Attorney General.
 `(b) ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS- An applicant for naturalization may choose
 to have the oath of allegiance under section 337(a) administered by the
 Attorney General or by any District Court of the United States for any
 State or by any court of record in any State having a seal, a clerk, and
 jurisdiction in actions in law or equity, or law and equity, in which the
 amount in controversy is unlimited. The jurisdiction of all courts in this
 subsection specified to administer the oath of allegiance shall extend only
 to persons resident within the respective jurisdiction of such courts.
 `(c) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A person whose application for naturalization under
 this title is denied, after a hearing before an immigration officer under
 section 336(a), may seek review of such denial before the United States
 district court for the district in which such person resides in accordance
 with chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code. Such review shall be de novo,
 and the court shall make its own findings of fact and conclusions of law
 and shall, at the request of the petitioner, conduct a hearing de novo on
 the application.
 `(d) SOLE PROCEDURE- A person may only be naturalized as a citizen of the
 United States in the manner and under the conditions prescribed in this
 title and not otherwise.'.
 (b) FILING OF APPLICATIONS- Section 334(a) (8 U.S.C. 1445(a)) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new sentence: `In the case of an applicant
 subject to a requirement of continuous residence under section 316(a)
 or 319(a), the application for naturalization may be filed up to 3 months
 before the date the applicant would first otherwise meet such continuous
 residence requirement.'.
 (c) NOTIFICATION- Section 335(b) (8 U.S.C. 1446(b)) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new sentence: `Any such employee shall, at
 the examination, inform the petitioner of the remedies available to the
 petitioner under section 336.'.
SEC. 402. SUBSTITUTING 3 MONTHS RESIDENCE IN INS DISTRICT OR STATE FOR 6
MONTHS RESIDENCE IN A STATE.
 Section 316(a)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1427(a)(1)) is amended by striking `and who has
 resided within the State in which the petitioner filed the petition for
 at least six months' and inserting `and who has resided within the State
 or within the district of the Service in the United States in which the
 applicant filed the application for at least three months'.
SEC. 403. WAIVER OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT FOR NATURALIZATION.
 Section 312(1) (8 U.S.C. 1423(1)) is amended by striking `is over fifty
 years of age and has been living in the United States for periods totaling at
 least twenty years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence'
 and inserting `either (A) is over 50 years of age and has been living in
 the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years subsequent to a
 lawful admission for permanent residence, or (B) is over 55 years of age
 and has been living in the United States for periods totaling at least 15
 years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence'.
SEC. 404. TREATMENT OF SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF A FOREIGN COUNTRY.
 Section 315 (8 U.S.C. 1425) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `but subject to subsection (c)' after
 `section 405(b)', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c) An alien shall not be ineligible for citizenship under this section
 or otherwise because of an exemption from training or service in the Armed
 Forces of the United States pursuant to the exercise of rights under a
 treaty, if before the time of the exercise of such rights the alien served
 in the Armed Forces of a foreign country of which the alien was a national.'.
SEC. 405. NATURALIZATION OF NATIVES OF THE PHILIPPINES THROUGH CERTAIN
ACTIVE-DUTY SERVICE DURING WORLD WAR II.
 (a) WAIVER OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- (1) Clauses (1) and (2) of section 329(a)
 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1440(a)) shall not apply
 to the naturalization of any person--
 (A) who was born in the Philippines and who was residing in the Philippines
 before the service described in subparagraph (B);
 (B) who served honorably--
 (i) in an active-duty status under the command of the United States Armed
 Forces in the Far East, or
 (ii) within the Philippine Army, the Philippine Scouts, or recognized
 guerrilla units,
at any time during the period beginning September 1, 1939, and ending December
31, 1946;
 (C) who is otherwise eligible for naturalization under section 329 of such
 Act; and
 (D) who applies for naturalization during the 2-year period beginning on
 the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (2) Subject to subsection (c), in applying section 329 of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act, service described in paragraph (1)(B) is considered
 to be honorable service in an active-duty status in the military, air,
 or naval forces of the United States.
 (b) WAIVER OF RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT- Section 340(d) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1451(d)) shall not apply to a person who is
 naturalized pursuant to subsection (a).
 (c) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- The enactment of this section shall not be
 construed as affecting the rights, privileges, or benefits of a person
 described in subsection (a)(1) under any provision of law (other than the
 Immigration and Nationality Act) by reason of the service of such person
 or the service of any other person under the command of the United States
 Armed Forces.
SEC. 406. PUBLIC EDUCATION REGARDING NATURALIZATION BENEFITS.
 Section 332 (8 U.S.C. 1443) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(h) In order to promote the opportunities and responsibilities of United
 States citizenship, the Attorney General shall broadly distribute information
 concerning the benefits which persons may receive under this title and the
 requirements to obtain such benefits. In carrying out this subsection, the
 Attorney General shall seek the assistance of appropriate community groups,
 private voluntary agencies, and other relevant organizations. There are
 authorized to be appropriated (for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal
 year 1991) such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.'.
SEC. 407. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 310 REVISION- (1) The item in the
 table of contents relating to section 310 is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 310. Naturalization authority.'.
 (2) Section 101(a)(36) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(36)) is amended by striking
 `(except as used in section 310(a) of title III)'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CHANGE IN RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT- (1) Section
 319 (8 U.S.C. 1430) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a), by striking `has resided within the State in which
 he filed his petition for at least six months' and inserting `has resided
 within the State or the district of the Service in the United States in
 which the applicant filed his application for at least three months',
 (B) in subsections (b) and (d), by striking `within the jurisdiction of
 the naturalization court' and inserting `within a State or a district of
 the Service in the United States', and
 (C) in subsection (c), is amended by striking `within the jurisdiction of
 the court' and inserting `district of the Service in the United States'.
 (2) Section 322(c) (8 U.S.C. 1433(c)) is amended by striking `within the
 jurisdiction of the naturalization court' and inserting `within a State or
 a district of the Service in the United States'.
 (3) Section 324(a)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1435(a)(1)) is amended by inserting `or
 district of the Service in the United States' after `State'.
 (4) Section 328 (8 U.S.C. 1439) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by inserting `or district of the Service in the United States' after
 `State', and
 (ii) by striking `for at least six months' and inserting `for at least
 three months';
 (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `within the jurisdiction of the court'
 and inserting `within a State or district of the Service in the United
 States'; and
 (C) in subsection (c), by inserting `or district of the Service in the
 United States' after `State'.
 (5) Section 329(b) (8 U.S.C. 1440(b)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by inserting `or district of the Service in the United States' after
 `State', and
 (ii) by inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
 (B) by striking paragraph (3); and
 (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
 (c) SUBSTITUTION OF APPLICATION FOR NATURALIZATION FOR PETITION FOR
 NATURALIZATION- The text of the following provisions is amended by striking
 `a petition', `petition', `petitions', `a petitioner', `petitioner',
 `petitioner's', `petitioning', and `petitioned' each place it appears and
 inserting `an application', `application', `applications' or `applies' (as
 the case may be), `an applicant', `applicant', `applicant's', `applying',
 and `applied', respectively:
 (1) Section 313(c) (8 U.S.C. 1424(c)).
 (2) Section 316 (8 U.S.C. 1427).
 (3) Section 317 (8 U.S.C. 1428).
 (4) Section 318 (8 U.S.C. 1429).
 (5) Sections 319 (a) and (c) (8 U.S.C. 1430 (a), (c)).
 (6) Section 322 (8 U.S.C. 1433).
 (7) Section 324 (8 U.S.C. 324).
 (8) Section 325 (8 U.S.C. 1436).
 (9) Section 326 (8 U.S.C. 1437).
 (10) Section 328 (8 U.S.C. 1439).
 (11) Section 329 (8 U.S.C. 1440), other than subsection (d).
 (12) Section 330 (8 U.S.C. 1441).
 (13) Section 331 (8 U.S.C. 1442), other than subsection (d).
 (14) Section 333(a) (8 U.S.C. 1444(a)).
 (15) Section 334 (8 U.S.C. 1445).
 (16) Section 335 (8 U.S.C. 1446).
 (17) Section 336 (8 U.S.C. 1447).
 (18) Section 337 (8 U.S.C. 1448).
 (19) Section 338 (8 U.S.C. 1449).
 (20) Section 344 (8 U.S.C. 1455).
 (21) Section 1429 of title 18, United States Code.
 (d) SUBSTITUTING APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY FOR NATURALIZATION
 COURT- (1) Section 316 (8 U.S.C. 1427) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b), by striking `the court' each place it appears and
 inserting `the Attorney General',
 (B) in subsection (b), by striking `date of final hearing' and inserting
 `date of any hearing under section 336(a)',
 (C) in subsection (e), by striking `the court' and inserting `the Attorney
 General',
 (D) in subsection (g)(1), by striking `within the jurisdiction of the court'
 and inserting `within a particular State or district of the Service in the
 United States', and
 (E) in subsection (g)(2), by amending the first sentence to read as follows:
 `An applicant for naturalization under this subsection may be administered
 the oath of allegiance under section 337(a) by any district court of the
 United States, without regard to the residence of the applicant.'.
 (2) The second sentence of section 317 (8 U.S.C. 1428) is amended by striking
 `and the naturalization court'.
 (3) The third sentence of section 318 (8 U.S.C. 1429) is amended--
 (A) by striking `finally heard by a naturalization court' and inserting
 `considered by the Attorney General', and
 (B) by striking `upon the naturalization court' and inserting `upon the
 Attorney General' .
 (4) Section 319 (8 U.S.C. 1430) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking `before the naturalization court'
 and inserting `before the Attorney General', and
 (B) in subsection (c)(5), by striking `naturalization court' and inserting
 `Attorney General'.
 (5) Section 322(c)(2)(C) (8 U.S.C. 1433(c)(2)(C)) is amended by striking
 `naturalization court' the first place it appears and inserting `Attorney
 General'.
 (6) Section 324 (8 U.S.C. 1435) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (1),
 (ii) by striking the semicolon at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting
 a period, and
 (iii) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4);
 (B) in subsection (b), by striking `naturalization court' and inserting
 `Attorney General'; and
 (C) in subsection (c)--
 (i) in paragraph (2), by striking `the judge or clerk of a naturalization
 court' and inserting `the Attorney General or the judge or clerk of a court
 described in section 310(b)', and
 (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking `or naturalization court' each place it
 appears and inserting `court, or the Attorney General'.
 (7) Section 327(a) (8 U.S.C. 1438(a)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `any naturalization court specified in section 310(a) of
 this title' and inserting `the Attorney General or before a court described
 in section 310(b)'; and
 (B) by inserting `and by the Attorney General to the Secretary of State'
 after `Department of Justice'.
 (8) Section 328(c) (8 U.S.C. 1439(c)) is amended by striking `the final
 hearing' and inserting `any hearing'.
 (9) Section 331(b) (8 U.S.C. 1442(b)) is amended by striking `called for
 a hearing' and all that follows through `to be continued' and inserting
 `considered or heard except after 90 days' notice to the Attorney General
 to be considered at the examination or hearing, and the Attorney General's
 objection to such consideration shall cause the application to be continued'.
 (10) Section 332(a) (8 U.S.C. 1443(a)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `for the purpose' and all that follows through `naturalization
 courts' in the first sentence, and
 (B) by striking the second sentence.
 (11) Section 333(a) (8 U.S.C. 1444(a)) is amended by striking `clerk of
 the court' and inserting `Attorney General'.
 (12) Section 334 (8 U.S.C. 1445) is amended--
 (A) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`APPLICATION FOR NATURALIZATION; DECLARATION OF INTENTION';
 (B) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking `in the office of the clerk of a naturalization court'
 and inserting `with the Attorney General',
 (ii) by striking `upon the hearing of such petition' and inserting `under
 this title';
 (C) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking `(1)',
 (ii) by striking `and (2)' and all that follows through `Attorney General',
 and
 (iii) by striking `petition for';
 (D) by striking the first sentence of subsection (f) and inserting the
 following: `An alien over 18 years of age who is residing in the United
 States pursuant to a lawful admission for permanent residence may file
 with the Attorney General a declaration of intention to become a citizen
 of the United States. Such a declaration shall be filed in duplicate and
 in a form prescribed by the Attorney General and shall be accompanied by
 an application prescribed and approved by the Attorney General.';
 (E) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
 (F) by striking subsections (c) through (e) and inserting the following:
 `(c) Hearings under section 336(a) on applications for naturalization shall
 be held at regular intervals specified by the Attorney General.
 `(d) Except as provided in subsection (e), an application for naturalization
 shall be filed in the office of the Attorney General.
 `(e) A person may file an application for naturalization other than in the
 office of the Attorney General, and an oath of allegiance administered
 other than in a public ceremony before the Attorney General or a court,
 if the Attorney General determines that the person has an illness or other
 disability which--
 `(1) is of a permanent nature and is sufficiently serious to prevent the
 person's personal appearance, or
 `(2) is of a nature which so incapacitates the person as to prevent him
 from personally appearing.'.
 (13) Section 335 (8 U.S.C. 1146) is amended--
 (A) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS; EXAMINATION OF APPLICATIONS';
 (B) in subsection (a), by striking `At any time' and all that follows through
 `336(a)' and inserting `Before a person may be naturalized';
 (C) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking `preliminary' each place it appears,
 (ii) in the first sentence, by striking `to any naturalization court'
 and all that follows through `to such court',
 (iii) by striking `any court exercising naturalization jurisdiction as
 specified in section 310 of this title' in the second sentence and inserting
 `any District Court of the United States', and
 (iv) by striking `final hearing conducted by a naturalization court designated
 in section 310 of this title' in the third sentence and inserting `hearing
 conducted by an immigration officer under section 336(a)';
 (D) in subsection (c)--
 (i) by striking `preliminary' each place it appears, and
 (ii) by striking `recommendation' and inserting `determination'; and
 (E) by amending subsections (d) through (f) to read as follows:
 `(d) The employee designated to conduct any such examination shall make a
 determination as to whether the application should be granted or denied,
 with reasons therefor.
 `(e) After an application for naturalization has been filed with the
 Attorney General, the applicant shall not be permitted to withdraw his
 application, except with the consent of the Attorney General. In cases
 where the Attorney General does not consent to the withdrawal of the
 application, the application shall be determined on its merits and a final
 order determination made accordingly. In cases where the applicant fails to
 prosecute his application, the application shall be decided on the merits
 unless the Attorney General dismisses it for lack of prosecution.
 `(f) An applicant for naturalization who moves from the district of the
 Service in the United States in which the application is pending may,
 at any time thereafter, request the Service to transfer the application
 to any district of the Service in the United States which may act on the
 application. The transfer shall not be made without the consent of the
 Attorney General. In the case of such a transfer, the proceedings on the
 application shall continue as though the application had originally been filed
 in the district of the Service to which the application is transferred.'.
 (14) Section 336 (8 U.S.C. 1447) is amended--
 (A) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`HEARINGS ON DENIALS OF APPLICATIONS FOR NATURALIZATION';
 (B) by amending subsections (a) and (b) to read as follows:
 `(a) If, after an examination under section 335, an application for
 naturalization is denied, the applicant may request a hearing before an
 immigration officer.
 `(b) If there is a failure to make a determination under section 335 before
 the end of the 120-day period after the date on which the examination is
 conducted under such section, the applicant may apply to the United States
 district court for the district in which the applicant resides for a hearing
 on the matter. Such court has jurisdiction over the matter and may either
 determine the matter or remand the matter, with appropriate instructions,
 to the Service to determine the matter.';
 (C) in subsection (c), by striking `court' and inserting `immigration
 officer';
 (D) in subsection (d)--
 (i) by striking `clerk of the court' and all that follows through
 `naturalization' and inserting `immigration officer shall, if the applicant
 requests it at the time of filing the request for the hearing',
 (ii) by striking `final' each place it appears, and
 (iii) by adding at the end the following: `Such subpenas may be enforced
 in the same manner as subpenas under section 335(b) may be enforced.'; and
 (E) in subsection (e)--
 (i) by striking `naturalization of any person,' and inserting `administration
 by a court of the oath of allegiance under section 337(a)', and
 (ii) by striking `included in the petition for naturalization of such persons'
 and inserting `included in an appropriate petition to the court'.
 (15) Section 337 (8 U.S.C. 1448) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) in the first sentence, by striking `in open court' and inserting `in
 a public ceremony before the Attorney General or a court with jurisdiction
 under section 310(b)',
 (ii) in the second and fourth sentences, by striking `naturalization court'
 each place it appears and inserting `Attorney General', and
 (iii) in the fourth sentence, by striking `the court' and inserting `the
 Attorney General';
 (B) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking `in open court in the court in which the petition for
 naturalization is made' and inserting `in the same public ceremony in which
 the oath of allegiance is administered', and
 (ii) by striking `in the court';
 (C) in subsection (c)--
 (i) by striking `being in open court' and inserting `attending a public
 ceremony', and
 (ii) by striking `a judge of the court at such place as may be designated
 by the court' and inserting `at such place as the Attorney General may
 designate under section 334(e)'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) The Attorney General shall prescribe rules and procedures to ensure that
 the ceremonies conducted by the Attorney General for the administration of
 oaths of allegiance under this section are public, conducted frequently and
 at regular intervals, and are in keeping with the dignity of the occasion.'.
 (16) Section 338 (8 U.S.C. 1449) is amended--
 (A) by striking `by a naturalization court',
 (B) by striking `the clerk of such court' and inserting `the Attorney
 General',
 (C) by striking `title, venue, and location of the naturalization court'
 and inserting `location of the District office of the Service in which the
 application was filed and the title, authority, and location of the official
 or court administering the oath of allegiance',
 (D) by striking `the court' and inserting `the Attorney General', and
 (E) by striking `of the clerk of the naturalization court; and seal of
 the court' and inserting `of an immigration officer; and the seal of the
 Department of Justice'.
 (17) Section 339 (8 U.S.C. 1450) is amended to read as follows:
`FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF CLERKS AND RECORDS OF DECLARATIONS OF INTENTION
AND APPLICATIONS FOR NATURALIZATION
 `SEC. 339. (a) The clerk of each court that administers oaths of allegiance
 under section 337 shall--
 `(1) issue to each person to whom such an oath is administered a document
 evidencing that such an oath was administered,
 `(2) forward to the Attorney General information concerning each person to
 whom such an oath is administered by the court, within 30 days after the
 close of the month in which the oath was administered,
 `(3) make and keep on file evidence for each such document issued, and
 `(4) forward to the Attorney General certified copies of such other
 proceedings and orders instituted in or issued out of the court affecting
 or relating to the naturalization of persons as may be required from time
 to time by the Attorney General.
 `(b) Each district office of the Service in the United States shall maintain,
 in chronological order, indexed, and consecutively numbered, as part of
 its permanent records, all declarations of intention and applications for
 naturalization filed with the office.'.
 (18) Section 340 (8 U.S.C. 1451) is amended--
 (A) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking `in any court
 specified in subsection (a) of section 310 of this title' and inserting
 `in any District Court of the United States',
 (B) by amending the second sentence of subsection (g) to read as follows:
 `The clerk of the court shall transmit a copy of such order and judgment
 to the Attorney General.',
 (C) by striking the third sentence of subsection (g), and
 (D) in subsection (i), by striking `any naturalization court' and all
 that follows through `to take such action' and inserting the following:
 `the Attorney General to correct, reopen, alter, modify, or vacate an order
 naturalizing the person'.
 (19) Section 344 (8 U.S.C. 1455) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking `The clerk of the court' and inserting `The Attorney General',
 (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking `final', and
 (iii) in paragraph (1), by striking `the naturalization court' and inserting
 `the Attorney General';
 (B) by striking subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f);
 (C) in subsection (g)--
 (i) by striking `, and all fees paid over to the Attorney General by clerks
 of courts under the provisions of this title,', and
 (ii) by striking `or by the clerks of the courts';
 (D) in subsection (h)--
 (i) by striking `no clerk of a United States court shall' and inserting
 `the Attorney General may not',
 (ii) by striking `, and no clerk of any State court' and all that follows
 through `charged or collected', and
 (iii) by striking the second sentence;
 (E) in subsection (i), by striking `clerk of court', `from the clerk,',
 `such clerk', and `by the clerk' and inserting `Attorney General', `from the
 Attorney General,', `the Attorney General', and `by the Attorney General',
 respectively; and
 (F) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (c),
 (d), and (e), respectively.
 (20) Section 348 (8 U.S.C. 1459) is repealed.
 (e) STRIKING MISCELLANEOUS MATERIAL- (1) Section 316 (8 U.S.C. 1427) is
 amended by striking subsection (f) and by redesignating subsection (g)
 as subsection (f).
 (2) Section 331 (8 U.S.C. 1442) is amended by striking the second sentence
 of subsection (d).
 (f) CORRECTIONS OF TABLE OF CONTENTS- (1) The items in the table of contents
 relating to sections 334 through 336 are amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 334. Application for naturalization; declaration of intention.
`Sec. 335. Investigation of applicants; examination of applications.
`Sec. 336. Hearings on denials of applications for naturalization.'.
 (2) The item in the table of contents relating to section 339 is amended
 to read as follows:
`Sec. 339. Functions and duties of clerks and records of declarations of
intention and applications for naturalization.'.
 (3) The item in the table of contents relating to section 348 is repealed.
SEC. 408. EFFECTIVE DATES AND SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
 (a) EFFECTIVE DATE-
 (1) NO NEW COURT PETITIONS AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE- No court shall have
 jurisdiction, under section 310(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
 to naturalize a person unless a petition for naturalization with respect
 to that person has been filed with the court before October 1, 1991.
 (2) TREATMENT OF CURRENT COURT PETITIONS-
 (A) CONTINUATION OF CURRENT RULES- Except as provided in subparagraph (B),
 any petition for naturalization which may be pending in a court on October
 1, 1991, shall be heard and determined in accordance with the requirements
 of law in effect when the petition was filed.
 (B) PERMITTING WITHDRAWAL AND CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION UNDER NEW RULES-
 In the case of any petition for naturalization which may be pending in any
 court on the date of the enactment of this Act, the petitioner may withdraw
 such petition and have the petitioner's application for naturalization
 considered under the amendments made by this title, but only if the petition
 is withdrawn not later than 3 months after the effective date.
 (3) GENERAL EFFECTIVE DATE- Except as otherwise provided in this section,
 the amendments made by this title are effective as of the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
 (b) INTERIM, FINAL REGULATIONS- The Attorney General shall prescribe
 regulations (on an interim, final basis or otherwise) to implement the
 amendments made by this title on a timely basis.
 (c) CONTINUING DUTIES- The amendments to section 339 of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act (relating to functions and duties of clerks) shall not apply
 to functions and duties respecting petitions filed before October 1, 1991.
 (d) GENERAL SAVINGS PROVISIONS- (1) Nothing contained in this title, unless
 otherwise specifically provided, shall be construed to affect the validity
 of any declaration of intention, petition for naturalization, certificate of
 naturalization, certification of citizenship, or other document or proceeding
 which is valid as of the effective date; or to affect any prosecution,
 suit, action, or proceedings, civil or criminal, brought, or any status,
 condition, right in process of acquisition, act, thing, liability, obligation,
 or matter, civil or criminal, done or existing, as of the effective date.
 (2) As to all such prosecutions, suits, actions, proceedings, statutes,
 conditions, rights, acts, things, liabilities, obligations, or matters, the
 provisions of law repealed by this title are, unless otherwise specifically
 provided, hereby continued in force and effect.
 (e) TREATMENT OF SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF FOREIGN COUNTRY- The amendments
 made by section 404 (relating to treatment of service in armed forces of
 a foreign country) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this
 Act and shall apply to exemptions from training or service obtained before,
 on, or after such date.
 (f) FILIPINO WAR VETERANS- Section 405 (relating to naturalization of natives
 of the Philippines through active-duty service under United States command
 during World War II) shall become effective on May 1, 1991, without regard to
 whether regulations to implement such section have been issued by such date.
TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT
Subtitle A--Criminal Aliens
SEC. 501. AGGRAVATED FELONY DEFINITION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Paragraph (43) of section 101(a) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by aligning its left margin with the left margin of paragraph (42),
 (2) by inserting `any illicit trafficking in any controlled substance (as
 defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act), including' after
 `murder,',
 (3) by inserting after `such title,' the following: `any offense described
 in section 1956 of title 18, United States Code (relating to laundering of
 monetary instruments), or any crime of violence (as defined in section 16
 of title 18, United States Code, not including a purely political offense)
 for which the term of imprisonment imposed (regardless of any suspension
 of such imprisonment) is at least 5 years,',
 (4) by striking `committed within the United States',
 (5) by adding at the end the following: `Such term applies to offenses
 described in the previous sentence whether in violation of Federal or State
 law.', and
 (6) by inserting before the period of the sentence added by paragraph (5)
 the following: `and also applies to offenses described in the previous
 sentence in violation of foreign law for which the term of imprisonment
 was completed within the previous 15 years'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply
 to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 except that the amendments made by paragraphs (2) and (5) of subsection
 (a) shall be effective as if included in the enactment of section 7342 of
 the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.
SEC. 502. SHORTENING PERIOD TO REQUEST JUDICIAL REVIEW.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 106(a)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1152a(a)(1)) is amended by
 striking `60 days' and inserting `30 days'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 final deportation orders issued on or after January 1, 1991.
SEC. 503. ENHANCING ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF INS OFFICERS.
 (a) BROADENING AUTHORITY- Section 287(a) (8 U.S.C. 1357(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3), and
 (2) in paragraph (4), by striking `United States' the second place it
 appears and all that follows and inserting the following: `United States, and
 `(5) to make arrests--
 `(A) for any offense against the United States, if the offense is committed
 in the officer's or employee's presence, or
 `(B) for any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States, if the
 officer or employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the person to
 be arrested has committed or is committing such a felony,
if the officer or employee is performing duties relating to the enforcement
of the immigration laws at the time of the arrest and if there is a likelihood
of the person escaping before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest.
Under regulations prescribed by the Attorney General, an officer or employee
of the Service may carry a firearm and may execute and serve any order,
warrant, subpoena, summons, or other process issued under the authority
of the United States. The authority to make arrests under paragraph (5)(B)
shall only be effective on and after the date on which the Attorney General
publishes final regulations which (i) prescribe the categories of officers
and employees of the Service who may use force (including deadly force) and
the circumstances under which such force may be used, (ii) establish standards
with respect to enforcement activities of the Service, (iii) require that any
officer or employee of the Service is not authorized to make arrests under
paragraph (5)(B) unless the officer or employee has received certification as
having completed a training program which covers such arrests and standards
described in clause (ii), and (iv) establish an expedited, internal review
process for violations of such standards, which process is consistent with
standard agency procedure regarding confidentiality of matters related to
internal investigations.'.
 (b) REQUIRING FINGERPRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHING OF CERTAIN ALIENS- (1) Section
 287 is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) Under regulations of the Attorney General, the Commissioner shall
 provide for the fingerprinting and photographing of each alien 14 years of
 age or older against whom a proceeding is commenced under section 242.
 `(2) Such fingerprints and photographs shall be made available to Federal,
 State, and local law enforcement agencies, upon request.'.
 (2) Section 264(b) (8 U.S.C. 1304(b)) is amended by inserting `(1) pursuant
 to section 287(f)(2), and (2)' after `only'.
SEC. 504. CUSTODY PENDING DETERMINATION OF DEPORTABILITY AND EXCLUDABILITY.
 (a) DEPORTABILITY- Section 242(a)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1252(a)(2)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking `upon completion of the alien's
 sentence for such conviction' and inserting `upon release of the alien
 (regardless of whether or not such release is on parole, supervised release,
 or probation, and regardless of the possibility of rearrest or further
 confinement in respect of the same offense)',
 (2) in the second sentence, by inserting `but subject to subparagraph (B)'
 after `Notwithstanding subsection (a)',
 (3) in the second sentence, by striking `subsection (a)' and inserting
 `paragraph (1) or subsections (c) and (d)',
 (4) by inserting `(A)' after `(2)', and
 (5) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) The Attorney General shall release from custody an alien who is lawfully
 admitted for permanent residence on bond or such other conditions as the
 Attorney General may prescribe if the Attorney General determines that
 the alien is not a threat to the community and that the alien is likely to
 appear before any scheduled hearings.'.
 (b) EXCLUDABILITY- Section 236 (8 U.S.C. 1226) is amended by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) Pending a determination of excludability, the Attorney General
 shall take into custody any alien convicted of an aggravated felony upon
 completion of the alien's sentence for such conviction.
 `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Attorney
 General shall not release such felon from custody unless the Attorney General
 determines that the alien may not be deported because the condition described
 in section 243(g) exists.
 `(3) If the determination described in paragraph (2) has been made, the
 Attorney General may release such alien only after--
 `(A) a procedure for review of each request for relief under this subsection
 has been established,
 `(B) such procedure includes consideration of the severity of the felony
 committed by the alien, and
 `(C) the review concludes that the alien will not pose a danger to the
 safety of other persons or to property.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 505. ELIMINATION OF JUDICIAL RECOMMENDATIONS AGAINST DEPORTATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 241(b) (8 U.S.C. 1251(b)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking `(1)', and
 (B) by striking `, or (2)' and all that follows up to the period at the
 end; and
 (2) in the second sentence, by inserting `or who has been convicted of an
 aggravated felony' after `subsection (a)(11) of this section'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to convictions
 entered before, on, or after such date.
SEC. 506. CLARIFICATION RESPECTING DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY IN DEPORTATION
PROCEEDINGS FOR INCARCERATED ALIENS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 242A(d)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1252a(d)(2)) is amended by
 striking `, unless' and all that follows up to the period at the end.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 507. REQUIRING COORDINATION PLAN WITH INS AS A CONDITION FOR RECEIPT OF
DRUG CONTROL AND SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT GRANTS UNDER THE OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL
AND SAFE STREETS ACT OF 1968.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 503(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
 Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3753(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new paragraph:
 `(11) An assurance that the State has established a plan under which the
 State will provide without fee to the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
 within 30 days of the date of their conviction, the certified records of
 conviction of aliens who have been convicted of violating the criminal laws
 of the State.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 grants for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1991.
SEC. 508. DEPORTATION FOR ATTEMPTED VIOLATIONS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES LAWS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 241(a)(11) (8 U.S.C. 1251(a)(11)) is amended by
 inserting `or attempt' after `conspiracy'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 convictions occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 509. GOOD MORAL CHARACTER DEFINITION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 101(f)(8) (8 U.S.C. 1101(f)(8)) is amended by
 striking `the crime of murder' and inserting `an aggravated felony (as
 defined in subsection (a)(43))'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to convictions
 occurring on or after such date.
SEC. 510. REPORT ON CRIMINAL ALIENS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General shall submit to the appropriate
 Committees of the Congress, by not later than December 1, 1991, a report
 that describes the efforts of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
 to identify, apprehend, detain, and remove from the United States aliens
 who have been convicted of crimes in the United States.
 (b) CRIMINAL ALIEN CENSUS- Such report shall include a statement of--
 (1) the number of aliens in the United States who have been convicted of a
 criminal offense in the United States, and, of such number, the number of
 such aliens who are not lawfully admitted to the United States;
 (2) the number of aliens lawfully admitted to the United States who have
 been convicted of such an offense and, based on such conviction, are subject
 to deportation from the United States;
 (3) the number of aliens in the United States who are incarcerated in a
 penal institution in the United States, and, of such number, the number of
 such aliens who are not lawfully admitted to the United States;
 (4)(A) the number of aliens whose deportation hearings have been conducted
 pursuant to section 242A(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and (B)
 the percentage that such number represents of the total number of deportable
 aliens with respect to whom a hearing under such section could have been
 conducted since November 18, 1988; and
 (5) the number of aliens in the United States who have reentered the United
 States after having been convicted of a criminal offense in the United States.
Within each of the numbers of aliens specified under this subsection who have
been convicted of criminal offenses, the Attorney General shall distinguish
between criminal offenses that are aggravated felonies (as defined in section
101(a)(43) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by this Act)
and for other criminal offenses.
 (c) CRIMINAL ALIEN REMOVAL PLAN- The Attorney General shall include in the
 report a plan for the prompt removal from the United States of criminal
 aliens who are subject to exclusion or deportation. Such plan shall also
 include a statement of additional funds that would be required to provide
 for the prompt removal from the United States of--
 (1)(A) aliens who are not lawfully admitted to the United States and who,
 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, have committed any criminal
 offense in the United States, and (B) aliens who are lawfully admitted
 to the United States and who, as of such date, have committed a criminal
 offense in the United States the commission of which makes the alien subject
 to deportation; and
 (2)(A) aliens who are not lawfully admitted to the United States and who,
 in the future, commit a criminal offense in the United States, and (B)
 aliens who are lawfully admitted to the United States and who, in the
 future, commit a criminal offense in the United States the commission of
 which makes the alien subject to deportation.
Such plan shall also include a method for identifying and preventing the
unlawful reentry of aliens who have been been convicted of criminal offenses
in the United States and removed from the United States.
SEC. 511. LIMITATION ON WAIVER OF EXCLUSION FOR RETURNING PERMANENT RESIDENTS
CONVICTED OF AN AGGRAVATED FELONY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 212(c) (8 U.S.C. 1182(c)) is amended by adding at
 the end the following: `The first sentence of this subsection shall not
 apply to an alien who has been convicted of an aggravated felony and has
 served a term of imprisonment of at least 5 years.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 admissions occurring after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 512. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL IMMIGRATION JUDGES FOR DEPORTATION
PROCEEDINGS INVOLVING CRIMINAL ALIENS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated in each of fiscal years 1991 through
 1995 such sums as are necessary to provide for 20 additional immigration
 judges in the Department of Justice, to be used to conduct proceedings under
 section 242A(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252a(d)).
SEC. 513. EFFECT OF FILING PETITION FOR REVIEW.
 (a) NO STAY UNLESS COURT ORDER- Section 106(a)(3) (8 U.S.C. 1105a(a)(3))
 is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: `or
 unless the alien is convicted of an aggravated felony, in which case the
 Service shall not stay the deportation of the alien pending determination
 of the petition of the court unless the court otherwise directs'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 petitions to review filed more than 60 days after the date of the enactment
 of this Act.
SEC. 514. EXTENDING BAR ON REENTRY OF ALIENS CONVICTED OF AGGRAVATED FELONIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 212(a)(17) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(17)) is amended by
 striking `10 years' and inserting `20 years'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 admissions occurring on or after January 1, 1991.
SEC. 515. ASYLUM IN THE CASE OF ALIENS CONVICTED OF AGGRAVATED FELONIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Section 208 (8 U.S.C. 1158) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) An alien who has been convicted of an aggravated felony, notwithstanding
 subsection (a), may not apply for or be granted asylum.'.
 (2) Section 243(h)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1253(h)(2)) is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
`For purposes of subparagraph (B), an alien who has been convicted of an
aggravated felony shall be considered to have committed a particularly
serious crime.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATES-
 (1) The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall apply to applications
 for asylum made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (2) The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall take effect on the date
 of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to convictions entered before,
 on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle B--Provision Relating to Employer Sanctions
SEC. 521. ELIMINATION OF PAPERWORK REQUIREMENT FOR RECRUITERS AND REFERRERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 274A(a)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `to hire, or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment
 in the United States',
 (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after `(A)' the following: `to hire,
 or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment in the United States', and
 (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting after `(B)' the following: `(i) to
 hire for employment in the United States an individual without complying
 with the requirements of subsection (b) or (ii) if the person or entity is
 an agricultural association, agricultural employer, or farm labor contractor
 (as defined in section 3 of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker
 Protection Act), to hire, or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment
 in the United States'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 recruiting and referring occurring on or after the date of the enactment
 of this Act.
SEC. 522. PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF CERTAIN DRIVERS' LICENSES AS DOCUMENTS
ESTABLISHING BOTH EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZATION AND IDENTITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General shall establish a pilot program under
 which, in the case of up to 3 States which provide for the issuance of
 drivers' licenses (and related identification documents) in accordance
 with a system described in subsection (b), a driver's license or similar
 identification document issued by the State in accordance with subsection
 (b) shall be treated, for purposes of section 274A(b) of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act, as a document described in paragraph (1)(B) of such section.
 (b) SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS- The system for the issuance of licenses or
 documents must--
 (1) be consistent with the biometric identification system developed pursuant
 to section 9105 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (49 U.S.C. App. 2705
 note), and
 (2) require that an applicant for a driver's license or other form of
 identification be issued a temporary driver's license or other form of
 identification upon demonstrating qualification therefor, and that the
 driver's license or other form of identification be mailed to the residence
 address of the applicant after a waiting period of not more than 30 days
 in which the State has used the biometric identification system and other
 means to confirm the identification information presented by the applicant.
 (c) REPORT- Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this
 Act, the Attorney General shall report to the Congress on the performance
 of the pilot program under this section and on whether such program should
 be extended (on a voluntary or mandatory basis) to all States.
Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Anti-Discrimination
SEC. 531. DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION CONCERNING ANTI-DISCRIMINATION
PROTECTIONS UNDER IRCA AND TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964.
 Section 274B (8 U.S.C. 1324b) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(l) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION CONCERNING ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PROVISIONS-
 `(1) Not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this
 subsection, the Special Counsel, in cooperation with the chairman of the
 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Secretary of Labor, and the
 Administrator of the Small Business Administration, shall conduct a campaign
 to disseminate information respecting the rights and remedies prescribed
 under this section and under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in
 connection with unfair immigration-related employment practices. Such campaign
 shall be aimed at increasing the knowledge of employers, employees, and the
 general public concerning employer and employee rights, responsibilities,
 and remedies under this section and such title.
 `(2) In order to carry out the campaign under this subsection, the Special
 Counsel--
 `(A) may, to the extent deemed appropriate and subject to the availability of
 appropriations, contract with public and private organizations for outreach
 activities under the campaign, and
 `(B) shall consult with the Secretary of Labor, the chairman of the Equal
 Employment Opportunity Commission, and the heads of such other agencies as
 may be appropriate.
 `(3) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection
 $10,000,000 for each fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 1991).'.
SEC. 532. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS WITHIN SCOPE
OF ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PROTECTIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 274B(a)(3)(B)(i) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B)(i))
 is amended by inserting `210(a), 210A(a), or' before `245A(a)(1)'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 actions occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 533. ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT THAT ALIENS FILE A DECLARATION OF
INTENDING TO BECOME A CITIZEN IN ORDER TO FILE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 274B(a) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `citizen or intending citizen' and
 inserting `protected individual';
 (2) in paragraph (3), by striking `CITIZEN OR INTENDING CITIZEN' and inserting
 `PROTECTED INDIVIDUAL';
 (3) in paragraph (3), by striking `citizen or intending citizen' and inserting
 `protected individual'; and
 (4) in paragraph (3)(B)--
 (A) by striking `is an alien' and all that follows through `but does not'
 and inserting `is an alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence,
 is granted the status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence
 under section 210(a), 210A(a), or 245A(a)(1), is admitted as a refugee
 under section 207, or is granted asylum under section 208; but does not', and
 (B) by striking `(I)' and `(II)' and inserting `(i)' and `(ii)', respectively.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply
 to unfair immigration-related employment practices occurring before, on,
 or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 534. ANTI-RETALIATION PROTECTIONS.
 (a) CODIFICATION OF REGULATION- Section 274B(a) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)) is
 amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(5) PROHIBITION OF INTIMIDATION OR RETALIATION- It is also an unfair
 immigration-related employment practice for a person or other entity to
 intimidate, threaten, coerce, or retaliate against any individual for
 the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured under this
 section or because the individual intends to file or has filed a charge
 or a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an
 investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this section. An individual so
 intimidated, threatened, coerced, or retaliated against shall be considered,
 for purposes of subsections (d) and (g), to have been discriminated against.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 actions occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 535. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN ACTIONS AS DISCRIMINATION.
 (a) DOCUMENTATION ABUSES- Section 274B(a) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)), as amended
 by section 534, is further amended by adding at the end the following
 new paragraph:
 `(6) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTARY PRACTICES AS EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES-
 For purposes of paragraph (1), a person's or other entity's request, for
 purposes of satisfying the requirements of section 274A(b), for more or
 different documents than are required under such section or refusing to honor
 documents tendered that on their face reasonably appear to be genuine shall
 be treated as an unfair immigration-related employment practice relating
 to the hiring of individuals.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
 the date of the enactment of this Act, but shall apply to actions occurring
 on or after such date.
SEC. 536. CONFORMING CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES FOR ANTI-DISCRIMINATION VIOLATIONS
TO THOSE FOR EMPLOYER SANCTIONS.
 (a) CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES- Section 274B(g)(2)(B) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B))
 is amended by amending clause (iv) to read as follows:
 `(iv)(I) except as provided in subclauses (II) through (IV), to pay a civil
 penalty of not less than $250 and not more than $2,000 for each individual
 discriminated against,
 `(II) except as provided in subclause (IV), in the case of a person or
 entity previously subject to a single order under this paragraph, to pay
 a civil penalty of not less than $2,000 and not more than $5,000 for each
 individual discriminated against,
 `(III) except as provided in subclause (IV), in the case of a person or
 entity previously subject to more than one order under this paragraph,
 to pay a civil penalty of not less than $3,000 and not more than $10,000
 for each individual discriminated against, and
 `(IV) in the case of an unfair immigration-related employment practice
 described in subsection (a)(6), to pay a civil penalty of not less than
 $100 and not more than $1,000 for each individual discriminated against.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 unfair immigration-related employment practices occurring after the date
 of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 537. PERIOD FOR FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
 (a) 120-DAY PERIOD- Section 274B(d)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(d)(2)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `the Special Counsel shall notify the person making the
 charge of the determination not to file such a complaint during such period
 and' after `120-day period,',
 (2) by inserting `within 90 days after the date of receipt of the notice'
 before the period at the end, and
 (3) by adding at the end the following: `The Special Counsel's failure to
 file such a complaint within such 120-day period shall not affect the right
 of the Special Counsel to investigate the charge or to bring a complaint
 before an administrative law judge during such 90-day period.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 charges received on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 538. SPECIAL COUNSEL ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION FORMS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 274A(b)(3) (8 U.S.C. 1324a(b)(3)) is amended by
 inserting `, the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment
 Practices,' after `officers of the Service,'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 on the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 539. ADDITIONAL RELIEF IN ORDERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 274B(g)(2)(B) (8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of clause (iii),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (iv)(II) and inserting a
 comma, and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(v) to post notices to employees about their rights under this section
 and employers' obligations under section 274A,
 `(vi) to educate all personnel involved in hiring and complying with
 this section or section 274A about the requirements of this section or
 such section,
 `(vii) to order (in an appropriate case) the removal of a false performance
 review or false warning from an employee's personnel file, and
 `(viii) to order (in an appropriate case) the lifting of any restrictions
 on an employee's assignments, work shifts, or movements.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 orders with respect to unfair immigration-related employment practices
 occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D--General Enforcement
SEC. 541. AUTHORIZING INCREASE BY 1,000 IN BORDER PATROL PERSONNEL.
 There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1991 such additional
 sums as may be necessary to provide for an increase of 1,000 in the authorized
 personnel level of the border patrol of the Immigration and Naturalization
 Service, above the authorized level of the patrol as of September 30, 1990.
SEC. 542. APPLICATION OF INCREASE IN PENALTIES TO ENHANCE ENFORCEMENT
ACTIVITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 280 (8 U.S.C. 1330) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' after `280.', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(b) Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, the
 increase in penalties collected resulting from the amendments made by
 sections 203(b), 543(a), and 544 of the Immigration Act of 1990 shall be
 credited to the appropriation--
 `(1) for the Immigration and Naturalization Service for activities that
 enhance enforcement of provisions of this title, including--
 `(A) the identification, investigation, and apprehension of criminal aliens,
 `(B) the implementation of the system described in section 242(a)(3)(A), and
 `(C) for the repair, maintainance, or construction on the United States
 border, in areas experiencing high levels of apprehensions of illegal aliens,
 of structures to deter illegal entry into the United States; and
 `(2) for the Executive Office for Immigration Review in the Department
 of Justice for the purpose of removing the backlogs in the preparation of
 transcripts of deportation proceedings conducted under section 242.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 fines and penalties collected on or after January 1, 1991.
SEC. 543. INCREASE IN FINE LEVELS; AUTHORITY OF THE INS TO COLLECT FINES.
 (a) CIVIL PENALTIES-
 (1) FAILURE TO DELIVER MANIFEST- Section 231(d) (8 U.S.C. 1221(d)) is amended
 by striking `collector of customs at the port of arrival or departure the
 sum of $10' and inserting `Commissioner the sum of $300'.
 (2) FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR DEPORTATION- Section 237(b) (8 U.S.C. 1227(b)) is
 amended by striking `district director of customs of the district in which
 port of arrival is situated or in which any vessel or aircraft of the line
 may be found, the sum of $300' and inserting `Commissioner the sum of $2,000'.
 (3) IMPROPER AIRCRAFT ENTRY- Section 239 (8 U.S.C. 1229) is amended by
 striking `$500' and inserting `$2,000'.
 (4) FAILURE TO CONTROL CREW- Section 254(a) (8 U.S.C. 1284(a)) is amended--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking `collector of customs of the customs
 district in which the port of arrival is located or in which the failure to
 comply with the orders of the officer occurs the sum of $1,000' and inserting
 `Commissioner the sum of $3,000', and
 (B) in the third sentence by striking `$200' and inserting `$500'.
 (5) EMPLOYMENT OF CERTAIN CREW- Section 255 (8 U.S.C. 1285) is amended--
 (A) in the second sentence, by striking `collector of customs of the
 customs district in which the port of arrival is located the sum of $50'
 and inserting `Commissioner the sum of $1,000', and
 (B) in the third sentence, by striking `collector of customs' and inserting
 `Commissioner'.
 (6) IMPROPER DISCHARGE OF CREW- Section 256 (8 U.S.C. 1286) is amended--
 (A) in the second sentence, by striking `collector of customs of the customs
 district in which the violation occurred the sum of $1,000' and inserting
 `Commissioner the sum of $3,000',
 (B) in the third sentence, by striking `collector of customs' and inserting
 `Commissioner', and
 (C) in the fourth sentence, by striking `$500' and inserting `$1,500'.
 (7) ASSISTING UNLAWFUL ENTRY OF CREW- Section 257 (8 U.S.C. 1287) is amended
 by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$10,000'.
 (8) DUTY TO PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED ENTRIES- Section 271(a) (8 U.S.C. 1321)
 is amended by striking `$1,000' and inserting `$3,000'.
 (9) BRINGING IN CERTAIN ALIENS- Section 272 (8 U.S.C. 1322) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking `collector of customs of the customs district in which the
 place of arrival is located' and inserting `Commissioner', and
 (ii) by striking `$1,000' and inserting `$3,000';
 (B) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking `collector of customs of the customs district in which the
 place of arrival is located' and inserting `Commissioner', and
 (ii) by striking `$250' and inserting `$3,000'; and
 (C) in subsection (c), by striking `collector of customs' and inserting
 `Commissioner'.
 (10) UNLAWFUL BRINGING OF ALIENS- Section 273 (8 U.S.C. 1323) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b), by striking `collector of customs of the customs
 district in which the port of arrival is located the sum of $1,000' and
 inserting `Commissioner the sum of $3,000', and
 (B) in subsection (d)--
 (i) in the first sentence, by striking `collector of customs of the customs
 district in which the port of arrival is located the sum of $1,000' and
 inserting `Commissioner the sum of $3,000', and
 (ii) in the second sentence, by striking `collector of customs' and inserting
 `Commissioner'.
 (b) CRIMINAL FINE LEVELS-
 (1) CREW MEMBER OVERSTAYING- Section 252(c) (8 U.S.C. 1282(c)) is amended
 by striking `shall be guilty' and all that follows through `six months'
 and inserting `shall be fined not more than $2,000 (or, if greater, the
 amount provided under title 18, United States Code) or imprisoned not more
 than 6 months'.
 (2) CONCEALMENT OF ALIENS- Section 275 (8 U.S.C. 1325) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `or attempts to enter' after `(1) enters',
 (B) by inserting `attempts to enter or' after `or (3)', and
 (C) by striking `shall, for the first commission', and all that follows
 through `$1,000' and inserting `shall, for the first commission of any such
 offense, be fined not more than $2,000 (or, if greater, the amount provided
 under title 18, United States Code) or imprisoned not more than 6 months,
 or both, and, for a subsequent commission of any such offense, be fined
 under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 2 years'.
 (3) UNLAWFUL REENTRY- Section 276 (8 U.S.C. 1326) is amended by striking
 `shall be guilty' and all that follows through `$1,000' and inserting
 `shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more
 than 2 years'.
 (4) AIDING IN ENTRY OF SUBVERSIVES- Section 277 (8 U.S.C. 1327) is amended
 by striking `shall be guilty' and all that follows through `five years' and
 inserting `shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned
 not more than 10 years'.
 (5) IMPORTING PROSTITUTES- Section 278 (8 U.S.C. 1328) is amended by striking
 `shall, in every' and all that follows through `ten years' and inserting
 `shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more
 than 10 years, or both'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATES- The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
 apply to actions taken after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 544. CIVIL PENALTIES FOR DOCUMENT FRAUD.
 (a) DOCUMENT FRAUD- Title II is amended by adding after section 274B the
 following new section:
`PENALTIES FOR DOCUMENT FRAUD
 `SEC. 274C. (a) ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED- It is unlawful for any person or
 entity knowingly--
 `(1) to forge, counterfeit, alter, or falsely make any document for the
 purpose of satisfying a requirement of this Act,
 `(2) to use, attempt to use, possess, obtain, accept, or receive any forged,
 counterfeit, altered, or falsely made document in order to satisfy any
 requirement of this Act,
 `(3) to use or attempt to use any document lawfully issued to a person
 other than the possessor (including a deceased individual) for the purpose
 of satisfying a requirement of this Act, or
 `(4) to accept or receive any document lawfully issued to a person other
 than the possessor (including a deceased individual) for the purpose of
 complying with section 274A(b).
 `(b) EXCEPTION- This section does not prohibit any lawfully authorized
 investigative, protective, or intelligence activity of a law enforcement
 agency of the United States, a State, or a subdivision of a State, or of
 an intelligence agency of the United States, or any activity authorized
 under title V of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 (18 U.S.C. note
 prec. 3481).
 `(c) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to diminish
 or qualify any of the penalties available for activities prohibited by this
 section but proscribed as well in title 18, United States Code.
 `(d) ENFORCEMENT-
 `(1) AUTHORITY IN INVESTIGATIONS- In conducting investigations and hearings
 under this subsection--
 `(A) immigration officers and administrative law judges shall have reasonable
 access to examine evidence of any person or entity being investigated, and
 `(B) administrative law judges, may, if necessary, compel by subpoena the
 attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence at any designated
 place or hearing.
In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena lawfully issued under
this paragraph and upon application of the Attorney General, an appropriate
district court of the United States may issue an order requiring compliance
with such subpoena and any failure to obey such order may be punished by
such court as a contempt thereof.
 `(2) Hearing-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Before imposing an order described in paragraph (3) against
 a person or entity under this subsection for a violation of subsection (a),
 the Attorney General shall provide the person or entity with notice and,
 upon request made within a reasonable time (of not less than 30 days, as
 established by the Attorney General) of the date of the notice, a hearing
 respecting the violation.
 `(B) CONDUCT OF HEARING- Any hearing so requested shall be conducted before
 an administrative law judge. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
 with the requirements of section 554 of title 5, United States Code. The
 hearing shall be held at the nearest practicable place to the place where
 the person or entity resides or of the place where the alleged violation
 occurred. If no hearing is so requested, the Attorney General's imposition
 of the order shall constitute a final and unappealable order.
 `(C) ISSUANCE OF ORDERS- If the administrative law judge determines,
 upon the preponderance of the evidence received, that a person or entity
 has violated subsection (a), the administrative law judge shall state his
 findings of fact and issue and cause to be served on such person or entity
 an order described in paragraph (3).
 `(3) CEASE AND DESIST ORDER WITH CIVIL MONEY PENALTY- With respect to a
 violation of subsection (a), the order under this subsection shall require
 the person or entity to cease and desist from such violations and to pay
 a civil penalty in an amount of--
 `(A) not less than $250 and not more than $2,000 for each document used,
 accepted, or created and each instance of use, acceptance, or creation, or
 `(B) in the case of a person or entity previously subject to an order under
 this paragraph, not less than $2,000 and not more than $5,000 for each
 document used, accepted, or created and each instance of use, acceptance,
 or creation.
In applying this subsection in the case of a person or entity composed of
distinct, physically separate subdivisions each of which provides separately
for the hiring, recruiting, or referring for employment, without reference
to the practices of, and not under the control of or common control with,
another subdivision, each such subdivision shall be considered a separate
person or entity.
 `(4) ADMINISTRATIVE APPELLATE REVIEW- The decision and order of an
 administrative law judge shall become the final agency decision and order of
 the Attorney General unless, within 30 days, the Attorney General modifies
 or vacates the decision and order, in which case the decision and order of
 the Attorney General shall become a final order under this subsection.
 `(5) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A person or entity adversely affected by a final order
 under this section may, within 45 days after the date the final order is
 issued, file a petition in the Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit
 for review of the order.
 `(6) ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS- If a person or entity fails to comply with
 a final order issued under this section against the person or entity,
 the Attorney General shall file a suit to seek compliance with the order
 in any appropriate district court of the United States. In any such suit,
 the validity and appropriateness of the final order shall not be subject
 to review.'.
 (b) NEW GROUND OF DEPORTATION- Section 241(a) (8 U.S.C. 1251(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (19),
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (20) and inserting `;
 or', and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(21) is the subject of a final order for violation of section 274C.'.
 (c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents is amended by inserting after
 the item relating to section 274B the following new item:
`Sec. 274C. Penalties for document fraud.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 persons or entities that have committed violations on or after the date of
 the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 545. DEPORTATION PROCEDURES; REQUIRED NOTICE OF DEPORTATION HEARING;
LIMITATION ON DISCRETIONARY RELIEF.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 5 of title II is amended by inserting after section
 242A the following new section:
`DEPORTATION PROCEDURES
 `SEC. 242B. (a) NOTICES-
 `(1) ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE- In deportation proceedings under section 242,
 written notice (in this section referred to as an `order to show cause')
 shall be given in person to the alien (or, if personal service is not
 practicable, such notice shall be given by certified mail to the alien or
 to the alien's counsel of record, if any) specifying the following:
 `(A) The nature of the proceedings against the alien.
 `(B) The legal authority under which the proceedings are conducted.
 `(C) The acts or conduct alleged to be in violation of law.
 `(D) The charges against the alien and the statutory provisions alleged to
 have been violated.
 `(E) The alien may be represented by counsel and, upon request, the alien
 will be provided a list of counsel prepared under subsection (b)(2).
 `(F)(i) The requirement that the alien must immediately provide (or have
 provided) the Attorney General with a written record of an address and
 telephone number (if any) at which the alien may be contacted respecting
 proceedings under section 242.
 `(ii) The requirement that the alien must provide the Attorney General
 immediately with a written record of any change of the alien's address or
 telephone number.
 `(iii) The consequences under subsection (c)(2) of failure to provide
 address and telephone information pursuant to this subparagraph.
 `(2) NOTICE OF TIME AND PLACE OF PROCEEDINGS- In deportation proceedings
 under section 242--
 `(A) written notice shall be given in person to the alien (or, if personal
 service is not practicable, written notice shall be given by certified mail
 to the alien or to the alien's counsel of record, if any), in the order to
 show cause or otherwise, of--
 `(i) the time and place at which the proceedings will be held, and
 `(ii) the consequences under subsection (c) of the failure to appear at
 such proceedings; and
 `(B) in the case of any change or postponement in the time and place of
 such proceedings, written notice shall be given in person to the alien (or,
 if personal service is not practicable, written notice shall be given by
 certified mail to the alien or to the alien's counsel of record, if any) of--
 `(i) the new time or place of the proceedings, and
 `(ii) the consequences under subsection (c) of failing, except under
 exceptional circumstances, to attend such proceedings.
 `(3) FORM OF INFORMATION- Each order to show cause or other notice under
 this subsection--
 `(A) shall be in English and Spanish, and
 `(B) shall specify that the alien may be represented by an attorney in
 deportation proceedings under section 242 and will be provided, in accordance
 with subsection (b)(1), a period of time in order to obtain counsel and a
 current list described in subsection (b)(2).
 `(4) CENTRAL ADDRESS FILES- The Attorney General shall create a system to
 record and preserve on a timely basis notices of addresses and telephone
 numbers (and changes) provided under paragraph (1)(F).
 `(b) SECURING OF COUNSEL-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In order that an alien be permitted the opportunity to
 secure counsel before the first hearing date in proceedings under section
 242, the hearing date shall not be scheduled earlier than 14 days after
 the service of the order to show cause.
 `(2) CURRENT LISTS OF COUNSEL- The Attorney General shall provide for lists
 (updated not less often than quarterly) of persons who have indicated their
 availability to represent aliens in proceedings under section 242.
 `(c) CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO APPEAR-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any alien who, after written notice required under subsection
 (a)(2) has been provided to the alien or the alien's counsel of record,
 except as provided in paragraph (2), does not attend a proceeding under
 section 242, shall be ordered deported under section 242(b)(1) in absentia
 if the Service establishes by clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence
 that, except as provided in paragraph (2), the written notice was so provided
 and that the alien is deportable.
 `(2) NO NOTICE IF FAILURE TO PROVIDE ADDRESS INFORMATION- No written notice
 shall be required under paragraph (1) if the alien has failed to provide
 the address required under subsection (a)(1)(F). Such written notice shall
 be considered sufficient if provided at the most recent address provided
 under such subsection.
 `(3) RESCISSION OF ORDER- Such an order may be rescinded only--
 `(A) upon a motion to reopen filed within 180 days after the date of the
 order of deportation if the alien demonstrates that the failure to appear
 was because of exceptional circumstances (as defined in subsection (f)(2)), or
 `(B) upon a motion to reopen filed at any time if the alien demonstrates
 that the alien did not receive notice in accordance with subsection (a)(2)
 or the alien demonstrates that the alien was in Federal or State custody
 and did not appear through no fault of the alien.
The filing of the motion to reopen described in subparagraph (A) or (B)
shall stay the deportation of the alien pending disposition of the motion.
 `(4) EFFECT ON JUDICIAL REVIEW- Any petition for review under section 106 of
 an order entered in absentia under this subsection shall, notwithstanding such
 section, be filed not later than 60 days after the date of the final order
 of deportation and shall (except in cases described in section 106(a)(5))
 be confined to the issues of the validity of the notice provided to the
 alien, to the reasons for the alien's not attending the proceeding, and to
 whether or not clear, convincing, and unequivocal evidence of deportability
 has been established.
 `(d) TREATMENT OF FRIVOLOUS BEHAVIOR- The Attorney General shall, by
 regulation--
 `(1) define in a proceeding before a special inquiry officer or before
 an appellate administrative body under this title, frivolous behavior for
 which attorneys may be sanctioned,
 `(2) specify the circumstances under which an administrative appeal of
 a decision or ruling will be considered frivolous and will be summarily
 dismissed, and
 `(3) impose appropriate sanctions (which may include suspension and
 disbarment) in the case of frivolous behavior.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as limiting the authority of
the Board to take actions with respect to inappropriate behavior.
 `(e) LIMITATION ON DISCRETIONARY RELIEF FOR FAILURE TO APPEAR-
 `(1) AT DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS- Any alien against whom a final order of
 deportation is entered in absentia under this section and who, at the time of
 the notice described in subsection (a)(2), was provided oral notice, either
 in the alien's native language or in another language the alien understands,
 of the time and place of the proceedings and of the consequences under this
 paragraph of failing, other than because of exceptional circumstances (as
 defined in subsection (f)(2))  to attend a proceeding under section 242,
 shall not be eligible for relief described in paragraph (5) for a period
 of 5 years after the date of the entry of the final order of deportation.
 `(2) VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), any alien allowed to depart
 voluntarily under section 244(e)(1) or who has agreed to depart voluntarily
 at his own expense under section 242(b)(1) who remains in the United States
 after the scheduled date of departure, other than because of exceptional
 circumstances, shall not be eligible for relief described in paragraph (5)
 for a period of 5 years after the scheduled date of departure or the date
 of unlawful reentry, respectively.
 `(B) WRITTEN AND ORAL NOTICE REQUIRED- Subparagraph (A) shall not apply
 to an alien allowed to depart voluntarily unless, before such departure,
 the Attorney General has provided written notice to the alien in English and
 Spanish and oral notice either in the alien's native language or in another
 language the alien understands of the consequences under subparagraph (A)
 of the alien's remaining in the United States after the scheduled date of
 departure, other than because of exceptional circumstances.
 `(3) FAILURE TO APPEAR UNDER DEPORTATION ORDER-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), any alien against whom a
 final order of deportation is entered under this section and who fails,
 other than because of exceptional circumstances, to appear for deportation
 at the time and place ordered shall not be eligible for relief described in
 paragraph (5) for a period of 5 years after the date the alien was required
 to appear for deportation.
 `(B) WRITTEN AND ORAL NOTICE REQUIRED- Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to
 an alien against whom a deportation order is entered unless the Attorney
 General has provided, orally in the alien's native language or in another
 language the alien understands and in the final order of deportation under
 this section of the consequences under subparagraph (A) of the alien's
 failure, other than because of exceptional circumstances, to appear for
 deportation at the time and place ordered.
 `(4) FAILURE TO APPEAR FOR ASYLUM HEARING-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), any alien--
 `(i) whose period of authorized stay (if any) has expired through the
 passage of time,
 `(ii) who has filed an application for asylum, and
 `(iii) who fails, other than because of exceptional circumstances, to appear
 at the time and place specified for the asylum hearing,
shall not be eligible for relief described in paragraph (5) for a period of
5 years after the date of the asylum hearing.
 `(B) WRITTEN AND ORAL NOTICE REQUIRED- Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in the
 case of an alien with respect to failure to be present at a hearing unless--
 `(i) written notice in English and Spanish, and oral notice either in the
 alien's native language or in another language the alien understands, was
 provided to the alien of the time and place at which the asylum hearing
 will be held, and in the case of any change or postponement in such time
 or place, written notice in English and Spanish, and oral notice either in
 the alien's native language or in another language the alien understands,
 was provided to the alien of the new time or place of the hearing; and
 `(ii) notices under clause (i) specified the consequences under subparagraph
 (A) of failing, other than because of exceptional circumstances, to attend
 such hearing.
 `(5) RELIEF COVERED- The relief described in this paragraph is--
 `(A) relief under section 212(c),
 `(B) voluntary departure under section 242(b)(1),
 `(C) suspension of deportation or voluntary departure under section 244, and
 `(D) adjustment or change of status under section 245, 248, or 249.
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- In this section:
 `(1) The term `certified mail' means certified mail, return receipt requested.
 `(2) The term `exceptional circumstances' refers to exceptional circumstances
 (such as serious illness of the alien or death of an immediate relative
 of the alien, but not including less compelling circumstances) beyond the
 control of the alien.'.
 (b) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Section 106(a) (8 U.S.C. 1105a) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `6 months' and inserting `90 days',
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (9) as paragraphs (7) through
 (10), respectively, and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
 `(6) whenever a petitioner seeks review of an order under this section,
 any review sought with respect to a motion to reopen or reconsider such an
 order shall be consolidated with the review of the order;'.
 (c) REPORT ON CONSOLIDATION OF REQUESTS FOR RELIEF- The Attorney General
 shall submit to the Congress by not later than 6 months after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, a report on abuses associated with the failure of
 aliens to consolidate requests for discretionary relief before immigration
 judges at the first hearing on the merits. The Attorney General shall take
 into account possible exceptions appropriate in the interest of justice and
 shall include in the report such recommendations for changes in regulations
 or law as may be needed to prevent such abuses.
 (d) REGULATIONS ON MOTIONS TO REOPEN AND TO RECONSIDER AND ON ADMINISTRATIVE
 APPEALS- Within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the Attorney General shall issue regulations with respect to--
 (1) the period of time in which motions to reopen and to reconsider may be
 offered in deportation proceedings, which regulations include a limitation
 on the number of such motions that may be filed and a maximum time period
 for the filing of such motions; and
 (2) the time period for the filing of administrative appeals in deportation
 proceedings and for the filing of appellate and reply briefs, which
 regulations include a limitation on the number of administrative appeals
 that may be made, a maximum time period for the filing of such motions
 and briefs, the items to be included in the notice of appeal, and the
 consolidation of motions to reopen or to reconsider with the appeal of the
 order of deportation.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The 8th sentence of section 242(b) (8
 U.S.C. 1252(b)) is amended to read as follows: `Such regulations shall
 include requirements consistent with section 242B.'.
 (f) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents is amended by inserting after
 the item relating to section 242A the following new item:
`Sec. 242B. Deportation procedures.'.
 (g) EFFECTIVE DATES-
 (1) NOTICE-RELATED PROVISIONS-
 (A) Subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e)(1) of section 242B of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act (as inserted by the amendment made by subsection
 (a)), and the amendment made by subsection (e), shall be effective on a
 date specified by the Attorney General in the certification described in
 subparagraph (B), which date may not be earlier than 6 months after the
 date of such certification.
 (B) The Attorney General shall certify to the Congress when the central
 address file system (described in section 242B(a)(4) of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act) has been established.
 (C) The Comptroller General shall submit to Congress, within 3 months after
 the date of the Attorney General's certification under subparagraph (B),
 a report on the adequacy of such system.
 (2) CERTAIN LIMITS ON DISCRETIONARY RELIEF; SANCTIONS FOR FRIVOLOUS BEHAVIOR-
 Subsections (d), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of section 242B of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act (as inserted by the amendment made by subsection (a))
 shall be effective on the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (3) LIMITS ON DISCRETIONARY RELIEF FOR FAILURE TO APPEAR IN ASYLUM HEARING-
 Subsection (e)(4) of section 242B of the Immigration and Nationality Act
 (as inserted by the amendment made by subsection (a)) shall be effective
 on February 1, 1991.
 (4) CONSOLIDATION OF RELIEF IN JUDICIAL REVIEW- The amendments made by
 subsection (b) shall apply to final orders of deportation entered on or
 after January 1, 1991.
TITLE VI--EXCLUSION AND DEPORTATION
SEC. 601. REVISION OF GROUNDS FOR EXCLUSION.
 (a) REVISED GROUNDS FOR EXCLUSION- Subsection (a) of section 212 (8
 U.S.C. 1182) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) CLASSES OF EXCLUDABLE ALIENS- Except as otherwise provided in this Act,
 the following describes classes of excludable aliens who are ineligible to
 receive visas and who shall be excluded from admission into the United States:
 `(1) HEALTH-RELATED GROUNDS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Any alien--
 `(i) who is determined (in accordance with regulations prescribed by the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services) to have a communicable disease of
 public health significance,
 `(ii) who is determined (in accordance with regulations prescribed by the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the Attorney
 General)--
 `(I) to have a physical or mental disorder and behavior associated with
 the disorder that may pose, or has posed, a threat to the property, safety,
 or welfare of the alien or others, or
 `(II) to have had a physical or mental disorder and a history of behavior
 associated with the disorder, which behavior has posed a threat to the
 property, safety, or welfare of the alien or others and which behavior is
 likely to recur or to lead to other harmful behavior,
 `(iii)  who is determined (in accordance with regulations prescribed by
 the Secretary of Health and Human Services) to be a drug abuser or addict,
is excludable.
 `(B) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of certain clauses
 of subparagraph (A), see subsection (g).
 `(2) CRIMINAL AND RELATED GROUNDS-
 `(A) CONVICTION OF CERTAIN CRIMES-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), any alien convicted
 of, or who admits having committed, or who admits committing acts which
 constitute the essential elements of--
 `(I) a crime involving moral turpitude (other than a purely political
 offense), or
 `(II) a violation of (or a conspiracy to violate) any law or regulation of
 a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled
 substance (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act
 (21 U.S.C. 802)),
is excludable.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION- Clause (i)(I) shall not apply to an alien who committed
 only one crime if--
 `(I) the crime was committed when the alien was under 18 years of age,
 and the crime was committed (and the alien released from any confinement
 to a prison or correctional institution imposed for the crime) more than
 5 years before the date of application for a visa or other documentation
 and the date of application for admission to the United States, or
 `(II) the maximum penalty possible for the crime of which the alien was
 convicted (or which the alien admits having committed or of which the acts
 that the alien admits having committed constituted the essential elements)
 did not exceed imprisonment for one year and, if the alien was convicted
 of such crime, the alien was not sentenced to a term of imprisonment in
 excess of 6 months (regardless of the extent to which the sentence was
 ultimately executed).
 `(B) MULTIPLE CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS- Any alien convicted of 2 or more offenses
 (other than purely political offenses), regardless of whether the conviction
 was in a single trial or whether the offenses arose from a single scheme of
 misconduct and regardless of whether the offenses involved moral turpitude,
 for which the aggregate sentences to confinement actually imposed were 5
 years or more is excludable.
 `(C) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TRAFFICKERS- Any alien who the consular or
 immigration officer knows or has reason to believe is or has been an illicit
 trafficker in any such controlled substance or is or has been a knowing
 assister, abettor, conspirator, or colluder with others in the illicit
 trafficking in any such controlled substance, is excludable.
 `(D) PROSTITUTION AND COMMERCIALIZED VICE- Any alien who--
 `(i) is coming to the United States solely, principally, or incidentally
 to engage in prostitution, or has engaged in prostitution within 10 years
 of the date of application for a visa, entry, or adjustment of status,
 `(ii) directly or indirectly procures or attempts to procure, or (within 10
 years of the date of application for a visa, entry, or adjustment of status)
 procured or attempted to procure or to import, prostitutes or persons for
 the purpose of prostitution, or receives or (within such 10-year period)
 received, in whole or in part, the proceeds of prostitution, or
 `(iii) is coming to the United States to engage in any other unlawful
 commercialized vice, whether or not related to prostitution,
is excludable.
 `(E) CERTAIN ALIENS INVOLVED IN SERIOUS CRIMINAL ACTIVITY WHO HAVE ASSERTED
 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION- Any alien--
 `(i) who has committed in the United States at any time a serious criminal
 offense (as defined in section 101(h)),
 `(ii) for whom immunity from criminal jurisdiction was exercised with
 respect to that offense,
 `(iii) who as a consequence of the offense and exercise of immunity has
 departed from the United States, and
 `(iv) who has not subsequently submitted fully to the jurisdiction of the
 court in the United States having jurisdiction with respect to that offense,
is excludable.
 `(F) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of certain
 subparagraphs of this paragraph, see subsection (h).
 `(3) SECURITY AND RELATED GROUNDS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Any alien who a consular officer or the Attorney General
 knows, or has reasonable ground to believe, seeks to enter the United States
 to engage solely, principally, or incidentally in--
 `(i) any activity to violate any law of the United States relating to
 espionage or sabotage or to violate or evade any law prohibiting the export
 from the United States of goods, technology, or sensitive information,
 `(ii) any other unlawful activity, or
 `(iii) any activity a purpose of which is the opposition to, or the control
 or overthrow of, the Government of the United States by force, violence,
 or other unlawful means,
is excludable.
 `(B) TERRORIST ACTIVITIES-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien who--
 `(I) has engaged in a terrorist activity, or
 `(II) a consular officer or the Attorney General knows, or has reasonable
 ground to believe, is likely to engage after entry in any terrorist activity
 (as defined in clause (iii)),
is excludable. An alien who is an officer, official, representative,
or spokesman of the Palestine Liberation Organization is considered, for
purposes of this Act, to be engaged in a terrorist activity.
 `(ii) TERRORIST ACTIVITY DEFINED- As used in this Act, the term `terrorist
 activity' means any activity which is unlawful under the laws of the place
 where it is committed (or which, if committed in the United States, would
 be unlawful under the laws of the United States or any State) and which
 involves any of the following:
 `(I) The highjacking or sabotage of any conveyance (including an aircraft,
 vessel, or vehicle).
 `(II) The seizing or detaining, and threatening to kill, injure, or continue
 to detain, another individual in order to compel a third person (including a
 governmental organization) to do or abstain from doing any act as an explicit
 or implicit condition for the release of the individual seized or detained.
 `(III) A violent attack upon an internationally protected person (as defined
 in section 1116(b)(4) of title 18, United States Code) or upon the liberty
 of such a person.
 `(IV) An assassination.
 `(V) The use of any--
 `(a) biological agent, chemical agent, or nuclear weapon or device, or
 `(b) explosive or firearm (other than for mere personal monetary gain),
with intent to endanger, directly or indirectly, the safety of one or more
individuals or to cause substantial damage to property.
 `(VI) A threat, attempt, or conspiracy to do any of the foregoing.
 `(iii) ENGAGE IN TERRORIST ACTIVITY DEFINED- As used in this Act, the term
 `engage in terrorist activity' means to commit, in an individual capacity
 or as a member of an organization, an act of terrorist activity or an act
 which the actor knows, or reasonably should know, affords material support
 to any individual, organization, or government in conducting a terrorist
 activity at any time, including any of the following acts:
 `(I) The preparation or planning of a terrorist activity.
 `(II) The gathering of information on potential targets for terrorist
 activity.
 `(III) The providing of any type of material support, including a safe
 house, transportation, communications, funds, false identification, weapons,
 explosives, or training, to any individual the actor knows or has reason
 to believe has committed or plans to commit an act of terrorist activity.
 `(IV) The soliciting of funds or other things of value for terrorist activity
 or for any terrorist organization.
 `(V) The solicitation of any individual for membership in a terrorist
 organization, terrorist government, or to engage in a terrorist activity.
 `(C) FOREIGN POLICY-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- An alien whose entry or proposed activities in the United
 States the Secretary of State has reasonable ground to believe would have
 potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
 States is excludable.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION FOR OFFICIALS- An alien who is an official of a foreign
 government or a purported government, or who is a candidate for election
 to a foreign government office during the period immediately preceding
 the election for that office, shall not be excludable or subject to
 restrictions or conditions on entry into the United States under clause
 (i) solely because of the alien's past, current, or expected beliefs,
 statements, or associations, if such beliefs, statements, or associations
 would be lawful within the United States.
 `(iii) EXCEPTION FOR OTHER ALIENS- An alien, not described in clause (ii),
 shall not be excludable or subject to restrictions or conditions on entry
 into the United States under clause (i) because of the alien's past, current,
 or expected beliefs, statements, or associations, if such beliefs, statements,
 or associations would be lawful within the United States, unless the Secretary
 of State personally determines that the alien's admission would compromise
 a compelling United States foreign policy interest.
 `(iv) NOTIFICATION OF DETERMINATIONS- If a determination is made under
 clause (iii) with respect to an alien, the Secretary of State must notify
 on a timely basis the chairmen of the Committees on the Judiciary and
 Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and of the Committees on
 the Judiciary and Foreign Relations of the Senate of the identities of the
 alien and the reasons for the determination.
 `(D) IMMIGRANT MEMBERSHIP IN TOTALITARIAN PARTY-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any immigrant who is or has been a member of or affiliated
 with the Communist or any other totalitarian party (or subdivision or
 affiliate thereof), domestic or foreign, is excludable.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION FOR INVOLUNTARY MEMBERSHIP- Clause (i) shall not apply
 to an alien because of membership or affiliation if the alien establishes
 to the satisfaction of the consular officer when applying for a visa (or
 to the satisfaction of the Attorney General when applying for admission)
 that the membership or affiliation is or was involuntary, or is or was
 solely when under 16 years of age, by operation of law, or for purposes
 of obtaining employment, food rations, or other essentials of living and
 whether necessary for such purposes.
 `(iii) EXCEPTION FOR PAST MEMBERSHIP- Clause (i) shall not apply to an
 alien because of membership or affiliation if the alien establishes to the
 satisfaction of the consular officer when applying for a visa (or to the
 satisfaction of the Attorney General when applying for admission) that--
 `(I) the membership or affiliation terminated at least--
 `(a) 2 years before the date of such application, or
 `(b) 5 years before the date of such application, in the case of an alien
 whose membership or affiliation was with the party controlling the government
 of a foreign state that is a totalitarian dictatorship as of such date, and
 `(II) the alien is not a threat to the security of the United States.
 `(iv) EXCEPTION FOR CLOSE FAMILY MEMBERS- The Attorney General may, in the
 Attorney General's discretion, waive the application of clause (i) in the
 case of an immigrant who is the parent, spouse, son, daughter, brother, or
 sister of a citizen of the United States or a spouse, son, or daughter of an
 alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence for humanitarian purposes,
 to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest if
 the alien is not a threat to the security of the United States.
 `(E) PARTICIPANTS IN NAZI PERSECUTIONS OR GENOCIDE-
 `(i) PARTICIPATION IN NAZI PERSECUTIONS- Any alien who, during the period
 beginning on March 23, 1933, and ending on May 8, 1945, under the direction
 of, or in association with--
 `(I) the Nazi government of Germany,
 `(II) any government in any area occupied by the military forces of the
 Nazi government of Germany,
 `(III) any government established with the assistance or cooperation of
 the Nazi government of Germany, or
 `(IV) any government which was an ally of the Nazi government of Germany,
ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise participated in the persecution of
any person because of race, religion, national origin, or political opinion
is excludable.
 `(ii) PARTICIPATION IN GENOCIDE- Any alien who has engaged in conduct that
 is defined as genocide for purposes of the International Convention on the
 Prevention and Punishment of Genocide is excludable.
 `(4) PUBLIC CHARGE- Any alien who, in the opinion of the consular officer
 at the time of application for a visa, or in the opinion of the Attorney
 General at the time of application for admission or adjustment of status,
 is likely at any time to become a public charge is excludable.
 `(5) LABOR CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR CERTAIN IMMIGRANTS-
 `(A) LABOR CERTIFICATION-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien who seeks to enter the United States for the
 purpose of performing skilled or unskilled labor is excludable, unless the
 Secretary of Labor has determined and certified to the Secretary of State
 and the Attorney General that--
 `(I) there are not sufficient workers who are able, willing, qualified
 (or equally qualified in the case of an alien described in clause (ii))
 and available at the time of application for a visa and admission to the
 United States and at the place where the alien is to perform such skilled
 or unskilled labor, and
 `(II) the employment of such alien will not adversely affect the wages and
 working conditions of workers in the United States similarly employed.
 `(ii) CERTAIN ALIENS SUBJECT TO SPECIAL RULE- For purposes of clause (i)(I),
 an alien described in this clause is an alien who--
 `(I) is a member of the teaching profession, or
 `(II) has exceptional ability in the sciences or the arts.
 `(B) UNQUALIFIED PHYSICIANS- An alien who is a graduate of a medical
 school not accredited by a body or bodies approved for the purpose by the
 Secretary of Education (regardless of whether such school of medicine is
 in the United States) and who is coming to the United States principally
 to perform services as a member of the medical profession is excludable,
 unless the alien (i) has passed parts I and II of the National Board of
 Medical Examiners Examination (or an equivalent examination as determined
 by the Secretary of Health and Human Services) and (ii) is competent in
 oral and written English. For purposes of the previous sentence, an alien
 who is a graduate of a medical school shall be considered to have passed
 parts I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners if the alien was
 fully and permanently licensed to practice medicine in a State on January 9,
 1978, and was practicing medicine in a State on that date.
 `(C) APPLICATION OF GROUNDS- The grounds for exclusion of aliens under
 subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall apply to preference immigrant aliens
 described in paragraph (3) or (6) of section 203(a) and to nonpreference
 immigrant aliens described in section 203(a)(7).
 `(6) ILLEGAL ENTRANTS AND IMMIGRATION VIOLATORS-
 `(A) ALIENS PREVIOUSLY DEPORTED- Any alien who has been excluded from
 admission and deported and who again seeks admission within one year of
 the date of such deportation is excludable, unless prior to the alien's
 reembarkation at a place outside the United States or attempt to be admitted
 from foreign contiguous territory the Attorney General has consented to
 the alien's reapplying for admission.
 `(B) CERTAIN ALIENS PREVIOUSLY REMOVED- Any alien who--
 `(i) has been arrested and deported,
 `(ii) has fallen into distress and has been removed pursuant to this or
 any prior Act,
 `(iii) has been removed as an alien enemy, or
 `(iv) has been removed at Government expense in lieu of deportation pursuant
 to section 242(b),
and who seeks admission within 5 years of the date of such deportation or
removal (or within 20 years in the case of an alien convicted of an aggravated
felony) is excludable, unless before the date of the alien's embarkation or
reembarkation at a place outside the United States or attempt to be admitted
from foreign contiguous territory the Attorney General has consented to the
alien's applying or reapplying for admission.
 `(C) MISREPRESENTATION-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien who, by fraud or willfully misrepresenting a
 material fact, seeks to procure (or has sought to procure or has procured)
 a visa, other documentation, or entry into the United States or other
 benefit provided under this Act is excludable.
 `(ii) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of clause (i),
 see subsection (i).
 `(D) STOWAWAYS- Any alien who is a stowaway is excludable.
 `(E) SMUGGLERS-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien who at any time knowingly has encouraged, induced,
 assisted, abetted, or aided any other alien to enter or to try to enter
 the United States in violation of law is excludable.
 `(ii) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of clause (i),
 see subsection (d)(11).
 `(F) SUBJECT OF CIVIL PENALTY- An alien who is the subject of a final order
 for violation of section 274C is excludable.
 `(7) DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS-
 `(A) IMMIGRANTS-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Act,
 any immigrant at the time of application for admission--
 `(I) who is not in possession of a valid unexpired immigrant visa, reentry
 permit, border crossing identification card, or other valid entry document
 required by this Act, and a valid unexpired passport, or other suitable travel
 document, or document of identity and nationality if such document is required
 under the regulations issued by the Attorney General under section 211(a), or
 `(II) whose visa has been issued without compliance with the provisions of
 section 203,
is excludable.
 `(ii) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of clause (i),
 see subsection (k).
 `(B) NONIMMIGRANTS-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any nonimmigrant who--
 `(I) is not in possession of a passport valid for a minimum of six months from
 the date of the expiration of the initial period of the alien's admission
 or contemplated initial period of stay authorizing the alien to return to
 the country from which the alien came or to proceed to and enter some other
 country during such period, or
 `(II) is not in possession of a valid nonimmigrant visa or border crossing
 identification card at the time of application for admission,
is excludable.
 `(ii) GENERAL WAIVER AUTHORIZED- For provision authorizing waiver of clause
 (i), see subsection (d)(4).
 `(iii) GUAM VISA WAIVER- For provision authorizing waiver of clause (i)
 in the case of visitors to Guam, see subsection (l).
 `(iv) VISA WAIVER PILOT PROGRAM- For authority to waive the requirement of
 clause (i) under a pilot program, see section 217.
 `(8) INELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Any immigrant who is permanently ineligible to citizenship
 is excludable.
 `(B) DRAFT EVADERS- Any alien who has departed from or who has remained
 outside the United States to avoid or evade training or service in the
 armed forces in time of war or a period declared by the President to be a
 national emergency is excludable, except that this subparagraph shall not
 apply to an alien who at the time of such departure was a nonimmigrant and
 who is seeking to reenter the United States as a nonimmigrant.
 `(9) MISCELLANEOUS-
 `(A) PRACTICING POLYGAMISTS- Any immigrant who is coming to the United
 States to practice polygamy is excludable.
 `(B) GUARDIAN REQUIRED TO ACCOMPANY EXCLUDED ALIEN- Any alien accompanying
 another alien ordered to be excluded and deported and certified to be
 helpless from sickness or mental or physical disability or infancy pursuant
 to section 237(e), whose protection or guardianship is required by the
 alien ordered excluded and deported, is excludable.
 `(C) INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), any alien who, after
 entry of a court order granting custody to a citizen of the United States
 of a child having a lawful claim to United States citizenship, detains,
 retains, or withholds custody of the child outside the United States from
 the United States citizen granted custody, is excludable until the child
 is surrendered to such United States citizen.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION- Clause (i) shall not apply to an alien who is a national
 of a foreign state that is a signatory to the Hague Convention on the Civil
 Aspects of International Child Abduction.'.
 (b) NOTICE OF GROUNDS FOR EXCLUSION- Such section is amended by striking
 subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(b) NOTICES OF DENIALS- If an alien's application for a visa, for admission
 to the United States, or for adjustment of status is denied by an immigration
 or consular officer because the officer determines the alien to be excludable
 under subsection (a), the officer shall provide the alien with a timely
 written notice that--
 `(1) states the determination, and
 `(2) lists the specific provision or provisions of law under which the
 alien is excludable or ineligible for entry or adjustment of status.'.
 (c) REVIEW OF EXCLUSION LISTS- The Attorney General and the Secretary of
 State shall develop protocols and guidelines for updating lookout books and
 the automated visa lookout system and similar mechanisms for the screening
 of aliens applying for visas for admission, or for admission, to the United
 States. Such protocols and guidelines shall be developed in a manner that
 ensures that in the case of an alien--
 (1) whose name is in such system, and
 (2) who either (A) applies for entry after the effective date of the
 amendments made by this section, or (B) requests (in writing to a local
 consular office after such date) a review, without seeking admission, of
 the alien's continued excludability under the Immigration and Nationality Act,
if the alien is no longer excludable because of an amendment made by this
section the alien's name shall be removed from such books and system and
the alien shall be informed of such removal and if the alien continues to
be excludable the alien shall be informed of such determination.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 212-
 (1) Subsection (c) of section 212 (8 U.S.C. 1182) is amended by striking
 `paragraph (1) through (25) and paragraphs (30) and (31) of subsection
 (a)' and inserting `subsection (a) (other than subparagraphs (A), (B),
 (C), or (E) of paragraph (3))'.
 (2) Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
 (A) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), (6), (9), and (10);
 (B) in paragraph (3)--
 (i) by striking `under one or more of the paragraphs enumerated in subsection
 (a) (other than paragraphs (27), (29), and (33))' and inserting `under
 subsection (a) (other than paragraphs (3)(A), (3)(C), and (3)(D) of such
 subsection)' each place it appears, and
 (ii) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `The Attorney General
 shall prescribe conditions, including exaction of such bonds as may be
 necessary, to control and regulate the admission and return of excludable
 aliens applying for temporary admission under this paragraph.';
 (C) in paragraph (4), by striking `(26)' and inserting `(7)(B)(i)';
 (D) in paragraph (7), by striking `of this section, except paragraphs (20),
 (21), and (26),' and inserting `(other than paragraph (7))';
 (E) in paragraph (8), by striking `(26), (27), and (29)' and inserting
 `(3)(A), (3)(B), (3)(C), and (7)(B)'; and
 (F) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(11) The Attorney General may, in his discretion for humanitarian purposes,
 to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest,
 waive application of clause (i) of subsection (a)(6)(E) in the case of any
 alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence who temporarily proceeded
 abroad voluntary and not under an order of deportation, and who is otherwise
 admissible to the United States as a returning resident under section 211(b)
 if the alien has encouraged, induced, assisted, abetted, or aided only
 the alien's spouse, parent, son, or daughter (and no other individual)
 to enter the United States in violation of law.'.
 (3) Subsection (g) of such section is amended to read as follows:
 `(g) The Attorney General may waive the application of--
 `(1) section (a)(1)(A)(i) in the case of any alien who--
 `(A) is the spouse or the unmarried son or daughter, or the minor unmarried
 lawfully adopted child, of a United States citizen, or of an alien lawfully
 admitted for permanent residence, or of an alien who has been issued an
 immigrant visa, or
 `(B) has a son or daughter who is a United States citizen, or an alien
 lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or an alien who has been issued
 an immigrant visa, or
 `(2) subsection (a)(1)(A)(ii) in the case of any alien,
in accordance with such terms, conditions, and controls, if any, including the
giving of bond, as the Attorney General, in his discretion after consultation
with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may by regulation prescribe.'.
 (4) Subsection (h) of such section is amended to read as follows:
 `(h) The Attorney General may, in his discretion, waive the application
 of subparagraphs (A)(i)(I), (B), (D), and (E) of subsection (a)(2) and
 subparagraph (A)(i)(II) of such subsection insofar as it relates to a single
 offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana in the case
 of an immigrant who is the spouse, parent, son, or daughter of a citizen
 of the United States or alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if--
 `(1) it is established to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that--
 `(A) the alien is excludable only under subparagraph (D)(i) or (D)(ii) of
 such subsection or the activities for which the alien is excludable occurred
 more than 15 years before the date of the alien's application for a visa,
 entry, or adjustment of status, and
 `(B) the admission to the United States of such alien would not be contrary
 to the national welfare, safety, or security of the United States, and
 `(C) the alien has been rehabilitated; and
 `(2) the Attorney General, in his discretion, and pursuant to such terms,
 conditions and procedures as he may by regulations prescribe, has consented
 to the alien's applying or reapplying for a visa, for admission to the
 United States, or adjustment of status.
No waiver shall be provided under this subsection in the case of an alien who
has been convicted of (or who has admitted committing acts that constitute)
murder or criminal acts involving torture.'.
 (5) Subsection (i) of such section is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) The Attorney General may, in his discretion, waive application of clause
 (i) of subsection (a)(6)(C)--
 `(1) in the case of an alien who is the spouse, parent, or son or daughter
 of a United States citizen or of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent
 residence, or
 `(2) if the fraud or misrepresentation occurred at least 10 years before the
 date of the alien's application for a visa, entry, or adjustment of status
 and it is established to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the
 admission to the United States of such alien would not be contrary to the
 national welfare, safety, or security of the United States.'.
 (6) Subsection (k) of such section is amended by striking `paragraph (14),
 (20), or (21)' and inserting `paragraph (5)(A) or (7)(A)(i)'.
 (7) Subsection (l) of such section is amended by striking `paragraph (26)(B)'
 and inserting `paragraph (7)(B)(i)'.
 (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments
 made by this section and by section 603(a) of this Act shall apply to
 individuals entering the United States on or after June 1, 1991.
 (2) The amendments made by paragraphs (5) and (13) of section 603(a) shall
 apply to applications for adjustment of status made on or after June 1, 1991.
SEC. 602. REVISION OF GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION.
 (a) REVISED GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION- Subsection (a) of section 241 (8
 U.S.C. 1251) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) CLASSES OF DEPORTABLE ALIENS- Any alien (including an alien crewman)
 in the United States shall, upon the order of the Attorney General, be
 deported if the alien is deportable as being within one or more of the
 following classes of aliens:
 `(1) EXCLUDABLE AT TIME OF ENTRY OR OF ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OR VIOLATES
 STATUS-
 `(A) EXCLUDABLE ALIENS- Any alien who at the time of entry or adjustment
 of status was within one or more of the classes of aliens excludable by
 the law existing at such time is deportable.
 `(B) ENTERED WITHOUT INSPECTION- Any alien who entered the United States
 without inspection or at any time or place other than as designated by the
 Attorney General or is in the United States in violation of this Act or
 any other law of the United States is deportable.
 `(C) VIOLATED NONIMMIGRANT STATUS OR CONDITION OF ENTRY-
 `(i) NONIMMIGRANT STATUS VIOLATORS- Any alien who was admitted as a
 nonimmigrant and who has failed to maintain the nonimmigrant status in
 which the alien was admitted or to which it was changed under section 248,
 or to comply with the conditions of any such status, is deportable.
 `(ii) VIOLATORS OF CONDITIONS OF ENTRY- Any alien whom the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services certifies has failed to comply with terms,
 conditions, and controls that were imposed under section 212(g) is deportable.
 `(D) TERMINATION OF CONDITIONAL PERMANENT RESIDENCE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien with permanent resident status on a conditional
 basis under section 216 (relating to conditional permanent resident status
 for certain alien spouses and sons and daughters) or under section 216A
 (relating to conditional permanent resident status for certain alien
 entrepreneurs, spouses, and children) who has had such status terminated
 under such section is deportable.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION- Clause (i) shall not apply in the cases described in
 section 216(c)(4) (relating to certain hardship waivers).
 `(E) SMUGGLING-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Any alien who (prior to the date of entry, at the time of
 entry, or within 5 years of the date of entry) knowingly has encouraged,
 induced, assisted, abetted, or aided any other alien to enter or to try to
 enter the United States in violation of law is deportable.
 `(ii) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- The Attorney General may, in his discretion for
 humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in the
 public interest, waive application of clause (i) in the case of any alien
 lawfully admitted for permanent residence if the alien has encouraged,
 induced, assisted, abetted, or aided only the alien's spouse, parent,
 son, or daughter (and no other individual) to enter the United States in
 violation of law.
 `(F) FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EMPLOYMENT- Any alien who obtains the status of
 an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence under section 210A who
 fails to meet the requirement of section 210A(d)(5)(A) by the end of the
 applicable period is deportable.
 `(G) MARRIAGE FRAUD- An alien shall be considered to be deportable as
 having procured a visa or other documentation by fraud (within the meaning
 of section 212(a)(5)(C)(i)) and to be in the United States in violation of
 this Act (within the meaning of subparagraph (B)) if--
 `(i) the alien obtains any entry into the United States with an immigrant
 visa or other documentation procured on the basis of a marriage entered
 into less than 2 years prior to such entry of the alien and which, within
 2 years subsequent to any entry of the alien in the United States, shall
 be judicially annulled or terminated, unless the alien establishes to the
 satisfaction of the Attorney General that such marriage was not contracted
 for the purpose of evading any provisions of the immigration laws, or
 `(ii) it appears to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the alien
 has failed or refused to fulfill the alien's marital agreement which in
 the opinion of the Attorney General was made for the purpose of procuring
 the alien's entry as an immigrant.
 `(H) WAIVER AUTHORIZED FOR CERTAIN MISREPRESENTATIONS- The provisions of
 this paragraph relating to the deportation of aliens within the United
 States on the ground that they were excludable at the time of entry as
 aliens described in section 212(a)(6)(C)(i), whether willful or innocent,
 may, in the discretion of the Attorney General, be waived for any alien
 (other than an alien described in paragraph (6) or (7)) who--
 `(i) is the spouse, parent, son, or daughter of a citizen of the United
 States or of an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent
 residence; and
 `(ii) was in possession of an immigrant visa or equivalent document and
 was otherwise admissible to the United States at the time of such entry
 except for those grounds of inadmissibility specified under paragraphs
 (5)(A) and (7)(A) of section 212(a) which were a direct result of that
 fraud or misrepresentation.
A waiver of deportation for fraud or misrepresentation granted under
this subparagraph shall also operate to waive deportation based on the
grounds of inadmissibility at entry directly resulting from such fraud or
misrepresentation.
 `(2) CRIMINAL OFFENSES-
 `(A) GENERAL CRIMES-
 `(i) CRIMES OF MORAL TURPITUDE- Any alien who--
 `(I) is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude committed within
 five years after the date of entry, and
 `(II) either is sentenced to confinement or is confined therefor in a prison
 or correctional institution for one year or longer,
is deportable.
 `(ii) MULTIPLE CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS- Any alien who at any time after entry is
 convicted of two or more crimes involving moral turpitude, not arising out
 of a single scheme of criminal misconduct, regardless of whether confined
 therefor and regardless of whether the convictions were in a single trial,
 is deportable.
 `(iii) AGGRAVATED FELONY- Any alien who is convicted of an aggravated felony
 at any time after entry is deportable.
 `(iv) WAIVER AUTHORIZED- Clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) shall not apply in the
 case of an alien with respect to a criminal conviction if the alien subsequent
 to the criminal conviction has been granted a full and unconditional pardon
 by the President of the United States or by the Governor of any of the
 several States.
 `(B) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES-
 `(i) CONVICTION- Any alien who at any time after entry has been convicted of
 a violation of (or a conspiracy or attempt to violate) any law or regulation
 of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled
 substance (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
 U.S.C. 802)), other than a single offense involving possession for one's
 own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana, is deportable.
 `(ii) DRUG ABUSERS AND ADDICTS- Any alien who is, or at any time after
 entry has been, a drug abuser or addict is deportable.
 `(C) CERTAIN FIREARM OFFENSES- Any alien who at any time after entry
 is convicted under any law of purchasing, selling, offering for sale,
 exchanging, using, owning, possessing, or carrying in violation of any law,
 any weapon, part, or accessory which is a firearm or destructive device
 (as defined in section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code) is deportable.
 `(D) MISCELLANEOUS CRIMES- Any alien who at any time has been convicted (the
 judgment on such conviction becoming final) of, or has been so convicted
 of a conspiracy to violate--
 `(i) any offense under chapter 37 (relating to espionage), chapter 105
 (relating to sabotage), or chapter 115 (relating to treason and sedition)
 of title 18, United States Code, for which a term of imprisonment of five
 or more years may be imposed;
 `(ii) any offense under section 871 or 960 of title 18, United States Code;
 `(iii) a violation of any provision of the Military Selective Service
 Act (50 U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.) or the Trading With the Enemy Act (50
 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq.); or
 `(iv) a violation of section 215 or 278 of this Act,
is deportable.
 `(3) FAILURE TO REGISTER AND FALSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS-
 `(A) CHANGE OF ADDRESS- An alien who has failed to comply with the provisions
 of section 265 is deportable, unless the alien establishes to the satisfaction
 of the Attorney General that such failure was reasonably excusable or was
 not willful.
 `(B) FAILURE TO REGISTER OR FALSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS- Any alien who at
 any time has been convicted--
 `(i) under section 266(c) of this Act or under section 36(c) of the Alien
 Registration Act, 1940,
 `(ii) of a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any provision of the
 Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), or
 `(iii) of a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, section 1546 of title
 18, United States Code (relating to fraud and misuse of visas, permits,
 and other entry documents),
is deportable.
 `(4) SECURITY AND RELATED GROUNDS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Any alien who has engaged, is engaged, or at any time
 after entry has engaged in--
 `(i) any activity to violate any law of the United States relating to
 espionage or sabotage or to violate or evade any law prohibiting the export
 from the United States of goods, technology, or sensitive information,
 `(ii) any other criminal activity which endangers public safety or national
 security, or
 `(iii) any activity a purpose of which is the opposition to, or the control
 or overthrow of, the Government of the United States by force, violence,
 or other unlawful means,
is deportable.
 `(B) TERRORIST ACTIVITIES- Any alien who has engaged, is engaged, or at
 any time after entry has engaged in any terrorist activity (as defined in
 section 212(a)(3)(B)(iii)) is deportable.
 `(C) FOREIGN POLICY-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- An alien whose presence or activities in the United
 States the Secretary of State has reasonable ground to believe would have
 potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
 States is deportable.
 `(ii) EXCEPTIONS- The exceptions described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of
 section 212(a)(3)(C) shall apply to deportability under clause (i) in the
 same manner as they apply to excluability under section 212(a)(3)(C)(i).
 `(D) ASSISTED IN NAZI PERSECUTION OR ENGAGED IN GENOCIDE- Any alien described
 in clause (i) or (ii) of section 212(a)(3)(E) is deportable.
 `(5) PUBLIC CHARGE- Any alien who, within five years after the date of
 entry, has become a public charge from causes not affirmatively shown to
 have arisen since entry is deportable.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 241-
 (1) Subsections (b), (c), (f), and (g) of section 241 are repealed.
 (2) Subsection (e) of such section is amended--
 (A) by striking `subsection (a) (6) or (7) of this section' and inserting
 `paragraph (4) of subsection (a)', and
 (B) by redesignating such subsection as subsection (b).
 (c) SAVINGS PROVISION- Notwithstanding the amendments made by this section,
 any alien who was deportable because of a conviction (before the date of the
 enactment of this Act) of an offense referred to in paragraph (15), (16),
 (17), or (18) of section 241(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as
 in effect before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be considered
 to remain so deportable. Except as otherwise specifically provided in such
 section and subsection (d), the provisions of such section, as amended
 by this section, shall apply to all aliens described in subsection (a)
 thereof notwithstanding that (1) any such alien entered the United States
 before the date of the enactment of this Act, or (2) the facts, by reason
 of which an alien is described in such subsection, occurred before the date
 of the enactment of this Act.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section, and by section
 603(b) of this Act, shall not apply to deportation proceedings for which
 notice has been provided to the alien before March 1, 1991.
SEC. 603. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) RELATING TO GROUNDS FOR EXCLUSION-
 (1) Section 101 (8 U.S.C. 1101) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (f)(3), by striking `paragraphs (11), (12), and (31)'
 and inserting `paragraphs (2)(D), (6)(E), and (9)(A)',
 (B) in subsection (f)(3), by striking `paragraphs (9) and (10) of section
 212(a) and paragraph (23)' and inserting `subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
 section 212(a)(2) and subparagraph (C) thereof', and
 (C) in subsection (h), by striking `212(a)(34)' and inserting `212(a)(2)(E)'.
 (2) Section 102 (8 U.S.C. 1102) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(27)' in paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting `(3) (other
 than subparagraph (E))', and
 (B) by striking `paragraphs (27) and (29)' in paragraph (3) and inserting
 `paragraph (3) (other than subparagraph (E))'.
 (3) Section 203(a)(7) (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)(7)) is amended by striking `section
 212(a)(14)' and inserting `section 212(a)(5)'.
 (4) Sections 207(c)(3) and 209(c) (8 U.S.C. 1157(c)(3), 1159(c)) are each
 amended--
 (A) by striking `(14), (15), (20), (21), (25), and (32)' and inserting `(4),
 (5), and (7)(A)', and
 (B) by striking `(other than paragraph' and all that follows through
 `narcotics)' and inserting `(other than paragraph (2)(C) or subparagraphs
 (A), (B), (C), or (E) of paragraph (3))'.
 (5) Section 210 (8 U.S.C. 1160) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(3)(B)(i), by striking `212(a)(19)' and inserting
 `212(a)(6)(C)(i)',
 (B) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by striking `(14), (20), (21), (25), and (32)'
 and inserting `(5) and (7)(A)',
 (C) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii)(I), by striking `Paragraph (9) and (10)'
 and inserting `Paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B)',
 (D) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii)(II), by striking `(15)' and inserting `(4)',
 (E) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii)(III), by striking `(23)' and inserting
 `(2)(C)',
 (F) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii)(IV), by striking `Paragraphs (27), (28), and
 (29) (relating to national security and members of certain organizations)'
 and inserting `Paragraph (3) (relating to security and related grounds),
 other than subparagraph (E) thereof',
 (G) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii), by striking subclause (V), and
 (H) in subsection (c)(2)(C), by striking `212(a)(15)' and inserting
 `212(a)(4)'.
 (6) Section 210A(e) (8 U.S.C. 1161(e)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `(14), (20), (21), (25), and (32)' and
 inserting `(5) and (7)(A)',
 (B) in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking `Paragraphs (9) and (10)' and
 inserting `Paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B)',
 (C) in paragraph (2)(B)(ii), by striking `(23)' and inserting `(2)(C)',
 (D) in paragraph (2)(B)(iii), by striking `(27), (28), and (29) (relating
 to national security and members of certain organizations)' and inserting
 `and (3) (relating to security grounds), other than subparagraph (E) thereof',
 (E) in paragraph (2)(B)(iv), by striking `(33)' and inserting `(3)(D)', and
 (F) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking `212(a)(15)' and inserting `212(a)(4)'.
 (7) Section 211(b) (8 U.S.C. 1181(b)) is amended by striking `212(a)(20)'
 and inserting `212(a)(7)(A)'.
 (8) Section 213 (8 U.S.C. 1183) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(7) or (15)' and inserting `(4)', and
 (B) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `, irrespective
 of whether a demand for payment of public expenses has been made'.
 (9) Section 221(g) (8 U.S.C. 1201(g)) is amended by striking `212(a)(7),
 or section 212(a)(15)' and inserting `212(a)(4)'.
 (10) Section 234 (8 U.S.C. 1224) is amended by striking `paragraphs (1),
 (2), (3), (4), or (5)' and inserting `paragraph (1)' each place it appears.
 (11) Section 235 (8 U.S.C 1225) is amended by striking `paragraph (27),
 (28), or (29) of section 212(a)' and inserting `subparagraph (A) (other
 than clause (ii)), (B), or (C) of section 212(a)(3)'.
 (12) Section 236(d) (8 U.S.C. 1226(d)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `is afflicted with a disease' and all that follows through
 `of section 212(a)' and inserting `has a disease, illness, or addiction which
 would make the alien excludable under paragraph (1) of section 212(a)', and
 (B) by striking the last sentence.
 (13) Section 245A(d)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1255a(d)(2)) is amended--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `(14), (20), (21), (25), and (32)'
 and inserting `(5) and (7)(A)',
 (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(I), by striking `Paragraphs (9) and (10)'
 and inserting `Paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B)',
 (C) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(II), by striking `(15)' and inserting `(4)',
 (D) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(III), by striking `(23)' and inserting `(2)(C)',
 (E) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(IV), by striking `(27), (28), and (29) (relating
 to national security and members of certain organizations)' and inserting
 `(3) (relating to security and related grounds), other than subparagraph
 (E) thereof',
 (F) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking subclause (V),
 (G) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking `212(a)(15)' and inserting
 `212(a)(4)', and
 (H) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking `212(a)(15)' and inserting
 `212(a)(4)'.
 (14) Section 249 (8 U.S.C. 1259) is amended by striking `212(a)(33)' and
 inserting `212(a)(3)(E)'.
 (15) Section 272 (8 U.S.C. 1322)--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking `(1) mentally retarded' and all that follows through `(6) a
 narcotic drug addict' and inserting `excludable under section 212(a)(1)', and
 (ii) by striking `such disease or disability' and inserting `the excluding
 condition';
 (B) by striking subsection (b);
 (C) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsections (b) through
 (d), respectively; and
 (D) by striking `DISABILITY OR AFFLICTED WITH DISEASE' in the heading and
 inserting `EXCLUSION ON A HEALTH- RELATED GROUND'.
 (16) Section 277 (8 U.S.C. 1327) is amended by striking `212(a)(9)' and all
 that follows through `(29)' and inserting `212(a)(2) (insofar as an alien
 excludable under such section has been convicted of an aggravated felony)
 or 212(a)(3) (other than subparagraph (E) thereof)'.
 (17) The item in the table of contents relating to section 272 is amended
 to read as follows:
`Sec. 272. Bringing in aliens subject to exclusion on a health-related
ground.'.
 (18) Section 21 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956
 (22 U.S.C. 2691) is repealed.
 (19) Section 14 of Public Law 99-396 is repealed.
 (20) Section 584(a)(2) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and
 Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988 (as contained in section 101(e)
 of Public Law 100-202) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(14), (15), (20), (21), (25), and (32)' and inserting `(4),
 (5), and (7)(A)', and
 (B) by striking `(other than paragraph' and all that follows through
 `narcotics)' and inserting `(other than paragraph (2)(C) or subparagraph (A),
 (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (3))'.
 (21) Section 901 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years
 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) is repealed.
 (22) Section 599E of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
 Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended by striking
 `(14), (15), (20), (21), (25), (28) (other than subparagraph (F)), and
 (32)' and inserting `(4), (5), and (7)(A)'.
 (23) Section 301(a)(1) of this Act is amended by striking `on a ground
 specified' and all that follows through `of such Act)' and inserting `on a
 ground specified in paragraph  (1)(A), (1)(B), (1)(C), (3)(A), of section
 241(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (other than so much of section
 241(a)(1)(A) of such Act as relates to a ground of exclusion described in
 paragraph (2) or (3) of section 212(a) of such Act)'.
 (24) Section 244A(c)(2)(A), as inserted by section 302 of this Act,
 is amended--
 (A) in clause (i), by striking `(14), (20), (21), (25), and (32)' and
 inserting `(5) and (7)(A)';
 (B) in clause (iii)(I), by striking `Paragraphs (9) and (10)' and inserting
 `Paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B)';
 (C) in clause (iii)(II), by striking `(23)' and inserting `(2)(C)' and by
 adding `or' at the end;
 (D) in clause (iii)(III), by striking `(27) and (29) (relating to national
 security)' and inserting `(3) (relating to security and related grounds)'
 and by striking `; or' at the end and inserting a period; and
 (E) by striking subclause (IV) of clause (iii).
 (b) RELATING TO GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION-
 (1) Section 210A(d)(5)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1161(d)(5)(A)) is amended by striking
 `241(a)(20)' and inserting `241(a)(1)(F)'.
 (2) Section 242 (8 U.S.C. 1252) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b), by striking `(4), (5), (6), (7), (11), (12), (14),
 (15), (16), (17), (18), or (19)' and inserting `(2), (3), or (4)', and
 (B) in subsection (e), by striking `paragraph (4), (5), (6), (7), (11),
 (12), (14), (15), (16), (17), (18), or (19)' and inserting `paragraph (2),
 (3) or (4)'.
 (3) Sections 243(h)(1) and 244(a) (8 U.S.C. 1253(h)(1), 1254(a)) are each
 amended by striking `241(a)(19)' and inserting `241(a)(4)(D)'.
 (4) Section 244 (8 U.S.C. 1254) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking `paragraph (4), (5), (6), (7), (11),
 (12), (14), (15), (16), (17), or (18)' and inserting `paragraph (2), (3),
 or (4)', and
 (B) in subsection (e)(1), by striking `(4), (5), (6), (7), (11), (12),
 (14), (15), (16), (17), (18), or (19)' in paragraph (2) and inserting `(2),
 (3), or (4)'.
 (5) Section 202(n) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402(n)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `paragraph (1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), (10), (11),
 (12), (14), (15), (16), (17), or (18) of section 241(a)' in paragraph (1)
 and inserting `under section 241(a) (other than under paragraph (1)(C) or
 (1)(E) thereof)', and
 (B) by striking `enumerated in paragraph (1) in this subsection' in paragraph
 (2) and inserting `(other than under paragraph (1)(C) or (1)(E) thereof)'.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 701. BATTERED SPOUSE OR CHILD WAIVER OF THE CONDITIONAL RESIDENCE
REQUIREMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 216(c)(4) (8 U.S.C. 1186a(c)(4)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking `by the alien spouse for good cause';
 (3) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 `, or';
 (4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) the qualifying marriage was entered into in good faith by the alien
 spouse and during the marriage the alien spouse or child was battered by
 or was the subject of extreme cruelty perpetrated by his or her spouse
 or citizen or permanent resident parent and the alien was not at fault in
 failing to meet the requirements of paragraph (1).'; and
 (5) by adding at the end the following: `The Attorney General shall, by
 regulation, establish measures to protect the confidentiality of information
 concerning any abused alien spouse or child, including information regarding
 the whereabouts of such spouse or child.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 respect to marriages entered into before, on, or after the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
SEC. 702. BONA FIDE MARRIAGE EXCEPTION TO FOREIGN RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT FOR
MARRIAGES ENTERED INTO DURING CERTAIN IMMIGRATION PROCEEDINGS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 245(e) (8 U.S.C. 1255(e)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `An alien' and inserting `Except as
 provided in paragraph (3), an alien', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) Paragraph (1) and section 204(h) shall not apply with respect to a
 marriage if the alien establishes by clear and convincing evidence to the
 satisfaction of the Attorney General that the marriage was entered into in
 good faith and in accordance with the laws of the place where the marriage
 took place and the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of procuring
 the alien's entry as an immigrant and no fee or other consideration was given
 (other than a fee or other consideration to an attorney for assistance
 in preparation of a lawful petition) for the filing of a petition under
 section 204(a) or 214(d) with respect to the alien spouse or alien son or
 daughter. In accordance with regulations, there shall be only one level of
 administrative appellate review for each alien under the previous sentence.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT--Section 204(h) (8 U.S.C. 1154(h)) is amended by
 inserting `except as provided in section 245(e)(3),' after `Notwithstanding
 subsection (a),'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
 marriages entered into before, on, or after the date of the enactment of
 this Act.
SEC. 703. 1-YEAR EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR FILING APPLICATIONS FOR ADJUSTMENT
FROM TEMPORARY TO PERMAMENT RESIDENCE FOR LEGALIZED ALIENS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 245A(b) (8 U.S.C. 1255a(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking `one-year period' and inserting
 `2-year period', and
 (2) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking `thirty-first' and inserting `43rd'.
 (b) LATE FEE- Section 245A(c)(7)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1255a(c)(7)(A)) is amended by
 adding at the end the following: `The Attorney General shall provide for an
 additional fee for filing an application for adjustment under subsection
 (b)(1) after the end of the first year of the 2-year period described in
 subsection (b)(1)(A).'.
SEC. 704. COMMISSION ON AGRICULTURAL WORKERS.
 (a) 1-YEAR EXTENSION- Section 304 of the Immigration Reform and Control
 Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-603) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c), by striking `five' and inserting `six', and
 (2) in subsection (i), by striking `63' and inserting `75'.
 (b) STAFF- Subsection (f) of such section is amended by striking `competitive
 service' and inserting `and compensation and other conditions of service
 in the civil service'.
SEC. 705. IMMIGRATION EMERGENCY FUND.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 404(b) (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(b)',
 (2) by inserting `(for fiscal year 1991 and any subsequent fiscal year)'
 after `appropriated',
 (3) by striking `$35,000,000' and inserting `an amount sufficient to provide
 for a balance of $35,000,000 in such fund',
 (4) by inserting `to carry out paragraph (2) and' after `to be used', and
 (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) Funds which are authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1),
 subject to the dollar limitation contained in subparagraph (B), shall be
 available, by application for the reimbursement of States and localities
 providing assistance as required by the Attorney General, to States and
 localities whenever--
 `(i) a district director of the Service certifies to the Commissioner that
 the number of asylum applications filed in the respective district during a
 calendar quarter exceeds by at least 1,000 the number  of such applications
 filed in that district during the preceding calendar quarter,
 `(ii) the lives, property, safety, or welfare of the residents of a State
 or locality are endangered, or
 `(iii) in any other circumstances as determined by the Attorney General.
 `(B) Not more than $20,000,000 shall be made available for all localities
 under this paragraph.
 `(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the requirement of paragraph (1)
 that an immigration emergency be determined shall not apply.
 `(D) A decision with respect  to an application for reimbursement under
 subparagraph (A) shall be made by the Attorney General within 15 days after
 the date of receipt of the application.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 404(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality
 Act, as added by the amendment made by subsection (a)(5), shall apply
 with respect to increases in the number of asylum applications filed in a
 calendar quarter beginning on or after January 1, 1989. The Attorney General
 may not spend any amounts from the immigration emergency fund pursuant to
 the amendments made by subsection (a) before October 1, 1991.
TITLE VIII--EDUCATION AND TRAINING
SEC. 801. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING.
 (a) USE OF FUND- The Secretary of Labor shall provide for grants to States to
 provide educational assistance and training for United States workers. The
 Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Education in making grants
 under this section.
 (b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Within the purposes described in subsection (a),
 funds in the account used under this section shall be allocated among the
 States based on a formula, established jointly by the Secretaries of Labor
 and Education, that takes into consideration--
 (1) the location of foreign workers admitted into the United States,
 (2) the location of individuals in the United States requiring and desiring
 the educational assistance and training for which the funds can be applied,
 and
 (3) the location of unemployed and underemployed United States workers.
 (c) DISBURSEMENT TO STATES-
 (1) Within the purposes and allocations established under this section,
 disbursements shall be made to the States, in accordance with grant
 applications submitted to and approved jointly by the Secretaries of Labor
 and Education, to be applied in a manner consistent with the guidelines
 established by such Secretaries in consultation with the States. In
 applying such grants, the States shall consider providing funding to
 joint labor-management trust funds and other such non-profit organizations
 which have demonstrated capability and experience in directly training and
 educating workers.
 (2) Not more than 5 percent of the funds disbursed to any State under this
 section may be used for administrative expenses.
 (d) LIMITATION ON FEDERAL OVERHEAD- The Secretaries shall provide that
 not more than 2 percent of the amount of funds disbursed to States under
 this section may be used by the Federal Government in the administration
 of this section.
 (e) ANNUAL REPORT- The Secretary of Labor shall report annually to the
 Congress on the grants to States provided under this section.
 (f) STATE DEFINED- In this section, the term `State' has the meaning given
 such term in section 101(a)(36) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.