 
--S.388--
S.388
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for five-year, staggered terms for members of the Federal Energy
Regula-
tory Commission, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Member
 Term Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FIVE-YEAR TERMS FOR MEMBERS OF THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY
COMMISSION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 401(b) of the Department of Energy Organization
 Act is amended by striking `four years' in the third sentence and inserting
 `5 years'.
 (b) STAGGERED TERMS- Section 401(b) of such Act is amended by--
 (1) inserting `(1)' after `(b)';
 (2) striking the fourth sentence;
 (3) amending the seventh sentence to read, `A Commissioner may continue to
 serve after the expiration of his term until his successor is appointed
 and has been confirmed and taken the oath of Office, except that such
 Commissioner shall not serve beyond the end of the session of the Congress
 in which such term expires.'; and
 (4) adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(2) Notwithstanding the third sentence of paragraph (1), the terms of
 members first taking office after the date of enactment of the Federal
 Energy Regulatory Commission Member Term Act of 1990 shall expire as follows:
 `(A) In the case of members appointed to succeed members whose terms expire
 in 1991, one such member's term shall expire on June 30, 1994, and one such
 member's term shall expire on June 30, 1995, as designated by the President
 at the time of appointment.
 `(B) In the case of members appointed to succeed members whose terms expire
 in 1992, one such member's term shall expire on June 30, 1996, and one such
 member's term shall expire on June 30, 1997, as designated by the President
 at the time of appointment.
 `(C) In the case of the member appointed to succeed the member whose term
 expires in 1993, such member's term shall expire on June 30, 1998.'.
 (c) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by this section apply only to
 persons appointed or reappointed as members of the Federal Energy Regulatory
 Commission after the date of enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.