 
--S.488--
S.488
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide Federal assistance and leadership to a program of research,
development, and demonstration of renewable energy and energy efficiency
technologies, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be referred to
 as the `Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Technology Competitiveness
 Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. FINDING, PURPOSE, AND GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 (a) FINDING- The Congress finds that it is in the national security and
 economic interest of the United States to foster greater efficiency in the use
 of available energy supplies and greater use of renewable energy technologies.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to authorize the Secretary
 of Energy, acting in accordance with authority contained in the Federal
 Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5901-5920)
 and other law applicable to the Secretary, to pursue an aggressive national
 program of research, development, and demonstration of renewable energy
 and energy efficiency technologies in order to ensure a stable and secure
 future energy supply by--
 (1) achieving as soon as practicable cost competitive use of those
 technologies without need of Federal financial incentives;
 (2) establishing long-term Federal research goals and multiyear funding
 levels;
 (3) directing the Secretary to undertake initiatives to improve the ability
 of the private sector to commercialize in the near term renewable energy
 and energy efficiency technologies; and
 (4) fostering collaborative research and development efforts involving the
 private sector through government support of a program of joint ventures.
 (c) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary, acting in accordance with the authority
 contained in the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of
 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5901-5920) and other law applicable to the Secretary--
 (1) is authorized and directed to--
 (A) pursue a program of research, development, and demonstration, including
 the use of joint ventures with the private sector, to achieve the purpose
 of this Act, including the goals established under section 4; and
 (B) undertake joint ventures as provided in section 6; and
 (2) is authorized to undertake, from time to time, joint ventures in
 technology areas other than those set forth in section 6(c), subject to
 the conditions set forth in section 6(b).
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `invention' means an invention or discovery that is patented
 or for which a patent may be obtained under title 35, United States
 Code, or any novel variety of plant that is protected or for which plant
 variety protection may be obtained under the Plant Variety Protection Act
 (7 U.S.C. 2321 et seq.) and that is conceived or reduced to practice as a
 result of work under an agreement entered into under this Act;
 (2) `joint venture' means any agreement entered into under this Act by
 the Secretary with more than one or a consortium of non-Federal persons
 (including a joint venture under the National Cooperative Research Act of
 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.)) for cost-shared research, development, or
 demonstration of technologies, but does not include procurement contracts,
 grant agreements, or cooperative agreements as those terms are used in
 sections 6303, 6304, and 6305 of title 31, United States Code;
 (3) the term `non-Federal person' means an entity located in the United
 States, the controlling interest (as defined by the Secretary) of which is
 held by persons of the United States, including--
 (A) a for-profit business;
 (B) a private foundation;
 (C) a nonprofit organization such as a university;
 (D) a trade or professional society; and
 (E) a unit of State or local government;
 (4) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Energy;
 (5) the term `small business', with respect to a participant in any joint
 venture under this Act, means a private firm that does not exceed the
 numerical size standard promulgated by the Small Business Administration
 under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)) for the
 Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code designated by the Secretary of
 Energy as the primary business activity to be undertaken in the venture; and
 (6) the term `United States' means the several States, the District of
 Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands,
 Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
 and any other Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL GOALS AND MULTI-YEAR FUNDING FOR FEDERAL WIND, PHOTOVOLTAICS,
AND SOLAR THERMAL PROGRAMS.
 (a) NATIONAL GOALS- The following are declared to be the national goals for
 the wind, photovoltaics, and solar thermal energy programs being carried
 out by the Secretary:
 (1) WIND- (A) In general, the goals for the Wind Energy Research Program
 include improving design methodologies and developing more reliable and
 efficient wind turbines to increase the cost competitiveness of wind
 energy. Research efforts shall emphasize--
 (i) activities that address near-term technical problems and assist private
 sector exploitation of market opportunities of the wind energy industry;
 (ii) developing technologies such as advanced airfoils and variable speed
 generators to increase wind turbine output and reduce maintenance costs by
 decreasing structural stress and fatigue;
 (iii) increasing the basic knowledge of aerodynamics, structural dynamics,
 fatigue, and electrical systems interactions as applied to wind energy
 technology; and
 (iv) improving the compatibility of electricity produced from wind farms
 with conventional utility needs.
 (B) Specific goals for the Wind Energy Research Program shall be to--
 (i) reduce average wind energy costs to 3 to 5 cents per kilowatt hour
 by 1995;
 (ii) reduce capital costs of new wind energy systems to $500 to $750 per
 kilowatt of installed capacity by 1995;
 (iii) reduce operation and maintenance costs for wind energy systems to
 less than one cent per kilowatt hour by 1995; and
 (iv) increase capacity factors for new wind energy systems to 25 to 35
 percent by 1995.
 (2) PHOTOVOLTAICS- (A) In general, the goals of the Photovoltaic Energy
 Systems Program shall include improving the reliability and conversion
 efficiencies of and lowering the costs of photovoltaic conversion. Research
 efforts shall emphasize advancements in the performance, stability, and
 durability of photovoltaic materials.
 (B) Specific goals of the Photovoltaic Energy Systems Program shall be to--
 (i) improve operational reliability of photovoltaic modules to 30 years
 by 1995;
 (ii) increase photovoltaic conversion efficiencies by 20 percent by 1995;
 (iii) decrease new photovoltaic module direct manufacturing costs to $800
 per kilowatt by 1995; and
 (iv) increase cost efficiency of photovoltaic power production to 10 cents
 per kilowatt hour by 1995.
 (3) SOLAR THERMAL- (A) In general, the goal of the Solar Thermal Energy
 Systems Program shall be to advance research and development to a point where
 solar thermal technology is cost-competitive with conventional energy sources,
 and to promote the integration of this technology into the production of
 industrial process heat and the conventional utility network. Research and
 development shall emphasize development of a thermal storage technology
 to provide capacity for shifting power to periods of demand when full
 insolation is not available; improvement in receivers, energy conversion
 devices, and innovative concentrators using stretch membranes, lenses,
 and other materials; and exploration of advanced manufacturing techniques.
 (B) Specific goals of the Solar Thermal Energy Systems Program shall be to--
 (i) reduce solar thermal costs for industrial process heat to $9.00 per
 million Btu by 1995; and
 (ii) reduce average solar thermal costs for electricity to 4 to 5 cents
 per kilowatt hour by 1995.
 (4) OTHER TECHNOLOGIES- The Secretary shall submit to the Congress, as part
 of the first report submitted under section 9, recommendations for specific
 cost goals and other pertinent goals for 1995 for Department of Energy
 research, development, and demonstration programs in Biofuels Energy Systems,
 Hydrogen Energy Systems, Solar Buildings Energy Systems, Ocean Energy Systems,
 Geothermal Energy Systems, Low-Head Hydro, and Energy Storage Systems.
 (b) AMENDED GOALS- Whenever the Secretary determines that any of the goals
 established under this section is no longer appropriate, the Secretary
 shall notify Congress, as part of a report submitted under section 9,
 of the reason for the determination and provide an amended goal that is
 consistent with the purpose stated in section 2(b).
 (c) AUTHORIZATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
 for the following renewable energy research, development, and demonstration
 programs: the Wind Energy Research Program, the Photovoltaic Energy Systems
 Program, the Solar Thermal Energy Systems Program, the Biofuels Energy
 Systems Program, the Hydrogen Energy Systems Program, the Solar Buildings
 Energy Systems Program, the Ocean Energy Systems Program, and the Geothermal
 Energy Systems Program--
 (1) not to exceed $113,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $39,000,000 shall be available for the Photovoltaic Energy
 Systems Program;
 (B) not to exceed $19,000,000 shall be available for the Geothermal Energy
 Systems Program; and
 (C) not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available for the Hydrogen Energy
 Systems Program;
 (2) not to exceed $121,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $40,000,000 shall be available for the Photovoltaic Energy
 Systems Program;
 (B) not to exceed $20,500,000 shall be available for the Geothermal Energy
 Systems Program; and
 (C) not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available for the Hydrogen Energy
 Systems Program; and
 (3) not to exceed $124,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $40,000,000 shall be available for the Photovoltaic Energy
 Systems Program;
 (B) not to exceed $23,000,000 shall be available for the Geothermal Energy
 Systems Program; and
 (C) not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be available for the Hydrogen Energy
 Systems Program.
Each of the President's annual budget requests submitted to Congress after
the date of enactment of this Act shall include as separate line items each
of the categories of renewable energy programs described in this subsection.
SEC. 5. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AUTHORIZATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for the following
 energy efficiency research, development, and demonstration programs:
 transportation, industrial, buildings and community systems, multi-sector,
 and policy and management--
 (1) not to exceed $201,100,000 for fiscal year 1991, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $68,300,000 shall be available for the transportation
 program; and
 (B) not to exceed $53,500,000 shall be available for the industrial program;
 (2) not to exceed $210,600,000 for fiscal year 1992, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $71,000,000 shall be available for the transportation
 program; and
 (B) not to exceed $54,700,000 shall be available for the industrial
 program; and
 (3) not to exceed $225,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, of which--
 (A) not to exceed $73,900,000 shall be available for the transportation
 program; and
 (B) not to exceed $56,900,000 shall be available for the industrial program.
SEC. 6. JOINT VENTURES.
 (a) FINDINGS AND PURPOSE-
 (1) FINDINGS- For purposes of this section, Congress finds that joint
 ventures can--
 (A) improve coordination in technology development among firms in industries
 attempting to commercialize renewable energy and energy efficiency
 technologies;
 (B) facilitate transfer of renewable energy and energy efficiency
 technologies, including critical enabling technologies, to the private
 sector; and
 (C) enhance the ability of domestic firms to compete with foreign enterprises
 in sales of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.
 (2) PURPOSE- The purpose of this section is to direct the Secretary to make
 use of joint ventures to further commercialization of renewable energy and
 energy efficiency technologies.
 (b) JOINT VENTURES-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall solicit proposals for joint ventures
 in each of the technology areas under subsection (c). The Secretary shall
 select at least one joint venture in each of those technology areas, unless
 no qualified proposals in that area are received. Each joint venture selected
 under this section shall include at least one for-profit business. Research
 and development activities supported under this section shall be performed
 in the United States. Each joint venture under this section shall require
 the manufacture and reproduction, substantially within the United States,
 for commercial sale of any invention that may result from the joint venture.
 (2) Cost sharing-
 (A) The Secretary shall require at least 50 percent of the costs directly
 and specifically related to any joint venture under this section, including
 cash, personnel, services, equipment, and other resources, to be provided
 from non-Federal sources.
 (B) The Secretary may reduce the amount of the costs required to be provided
 by any joint venture under subparagraph (A) upon application if the Secretary
 determines that--
 (i) the joint venture is composed exclusively of small businesses or of
 small businesses and nonprofit entities; and
 (ii) the reduction is appropriate and necessary for the successful operation
 of the proposed joint venture.
 (C) The extent of cost sharing provided under proposals shall be a criterion
 for selection of proposals under this section.
 (3) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- (A) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory
 Committee on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Joint Ventures (hereafter
 in this Act referred to as the `Advisory Committee') to advise the Secretary
 on the development of the solicitation and evaluation criteria for joint
 ventures, and on otherwise carrying out his responsibilities under this
 section. The Secretary shall appoint members to the Advisory Committee,
 including at least one member representing--
 (i) the Secretary of Commerce;
 (ii) the National Laboratories of the Department of Energy;
 (iii) the Solar Energy Research Institute;
 (iv) the Electric Power Research Institute;
 (v) the Gas Research Institute;
 (vi) the National Institute of Building Sciences;
 (vii) the National Institute of Standards and Technology;
 (viii) associations of firms in the major renewable energy manufacturing
 industries; and
 (ix) associations of firms in the major energy efficiency manufacturing
 industries.
The Advisory Committee may establish such subcommittees as it considers
necessary to carry out this Act.
 (B) The Advisory Committee, within 120 days after its establishment, shall
 provide the Secretary with recommendations regarding the structure and
 selection criteria for a solicitation of proposals for joint ventures. The
 Advisory Committee shall also advise the Secretary from time to time on
 the implementation of the joint venture program. Recommendations of the
 Advisory Committee shall be available to the public.
 (4) DRAFT SOLICITATION AND PUBLIC COMMENT- The Secretary shall issue a draft
 solicitation for joint ventures by September 30, 1990. After such draft
 solicitation has been issued, the Secretary shall provide for a period of
 public comment before the issuance of a final solicitation.
 (5) PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY RIGHTS- Joint ventures, participants in joint
 ventures, and inventions developed as a result of joint ventures under
 this section shall be subject to section 5 of the Steel and Aluminum Energy
 Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 5104).
 (c) TECHNOLOGIES-
 (1) PHOTOVOLTAICS TECHNOLOGY- (A) The Secretary shall solicit proposals
 for and provide financial assistance to at least one joint venture for the
 demonstration of photovoltaic conversion of solar energy in accordance with
 the provisions of this paragraph.
 (B) The purpose of joint ventures supported under this paragraph shall
 be to design, test, and demonstrate critical enabling technologies for
 photovoltaic conversion of solar energy so as to achieve, to the maximum
 extent practicable, the goals of the Photovoltaic Energy Systems Program set
 forth in section 4(a)(2), as those goals may be amended under section 4(b).
 (C) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary not to exceed
 $2,700,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 this paragraph.
 (2) WIND ENERGY TECHNOLOGY- (A) The Secretary shall solicit proposals
 for and provide financial assistance to at least one joint venture for
 the demonstration of the conversion of wind energy in accordance with the
 provisions of this paragraph.
 (B) The purpose of joint ventures supported under this paragraph shall
 be to design, test, and demonstrate critical enabling technologies for the
 conversion of wind energy so as to achieve, to the maximum extent practicable,
 the goals of the Wind Energy Research Program set forth in section 4(a)(1),
 as those goals may be amended under section 4(b).
 (C) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary not to exceed
 $2,700,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 this paragraph.
 (3) SOLAR THERMAL TECHNOLOGY- (A) The Secretary shall solicit proposals
 for and provide financial assistance to at least one joint venture for the
 demonstration of the use of solar thermal energy in accordance with the
 provisions of this paragraph.
 (B) The purpose of joint ventures supported under this paragraph shall be to
 design, test, and demonstrate critical enabling technologies for the use of
 solar thermal energy so as to achieve, to the maximum extent practicable,
 the goals of the Solar Thermal Energy Systems Program set forth in section
 4(a)(3), as those goals may be amended under section 4(b).
 (C) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary not to exceed
 $2,400,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 this paragraph.
 (4) FACTORY-MADE HOUSING- (A) The Secretary shall solicit proposals for
 and provide financial assistance to at least one joint venture in order
 to establish regional projects to develop or demonstrate techniques to
 improve the energy performance of factory-made housing offered by United
 States firms. In locating projects under this paragraph, the Secretary
 shall consider regional differences in housing needs, housing design,
 construction technique, marketing practices, and construction materials.
 (B) Projects supported pursuant to this paragraph shall be designed to
 demonstrate state-of-the-art product quality, energy efficiency, and
 adaptability to renewable forms of energy of factory-made housing offered
 for sale in the United States. Such projects shall--
 (i) be structured to demonstrate improvements in housing design, fabrication,
 delivery systems, construction processes, and marketing;
 (ii) develop a detailed characterization of the needs of the home building
 industry;
 (iii) establish a close working relationship with all sectors of the home
 building industry; and
 (iv) be coordinated to pool and conserve resources.
 (C) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary not to exceed
 $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 this paragraph.
 (5) ADVANCED DISTRICT COOLING TECHNOLOGY- (A) The Secretary shall solicit
 proposals for and provide financial assistance to at least one joint
 venture for the demonstration of advanced district cooling technologies
 that are applicable in cities with high cooling loads, in accordance with
 the provisions of this paragraph.
 (B) The purpose of joint ventures supported under this paragraph shall be to
 develop technical strategies for decreasing the capital cost and increasing
 the energy efficiency of major district heating and cooling system components
 and to assist in making district cooling available to local governments.
 (C) The Secretary shall select a city or cities for application of advanced
 district cooling technologies developed by joint ventures supported under this
 paragraph. The activities to be carried out in such application shall include
 district cooling assessment, feasibility, and engineering design studies.
 (D) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary not to exceed
 $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 this paragraph.
 (d) SECRETARIAL DISCRETION- (1) If the Secretary, based on the recommendations
 of the Advisory Committee under subsection (b)(3)(B), with respect to a
 technology described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of subsection
 (c), determines, that--
 (A) there is insufficient private sector interest in joint ventures for the
 demonstration of such technology to satisfy the requirement of subsection
 (b)(2); or
 (B) such joint ventures will substantially substitute for research,
 development, and demonstration activities already financed by the private
 sector,
then the Secretary shall not be subject to the requirements of this section
with respect to the technology described in such paragraph, and the Secretary
shall notify Congress and provide a written explanation of the reasons for
the determination.
 (2) Promptly after notifying the Congress under paragraph (1), the Secretary
 shall consult with the Advisory Committee, and, based on the recommendations
 of such Committee, shall promptly transmit to Congress a plan for the
 selection of a substitute field or technology in which to solicit joint
 ventures that develop or demonstrate, consistent with this section, an
 alternative renewable energy or energy efficiency technology so as to
 accomplish the purpose of this Act. Any unexpended funds authorized to be
 appropriated under subsection (c) for joint ventures with respect to which
 a determination is made under paragraph (1) may be used for a substitute
 joint venture selected under this paragraph.
 (3) When 30 calendar days have elapsed after transmittal of a plan under
 paragraph (2), the Secretary shall proceed with solicitations for joint
 ventures appropriate to that plan as if such joint ventures were required
 under subsection (c).
 (e) ADDITIONAL JOINT VENTURES- (1) The Secretary shall recommend to the
 Congress three additional joint ventures in the fields of renewable energy
 or energy efficiency technologies for fiscal year 1993. Each proposed
 project shall be described in sufficient detail to support congressional
 authorization.
 (2) In selecting proposed projects under this subsection, the Secretary
 shall consider the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, and shall
 take into account the extent to which such projects will contribute to
 earlier commercialization of key technologies than might not occur without
 Federal support under this subsection, and the extent to which such projects
 will contribute to the competitiveness of United States firms engaged in
 international trade in renewable energy or energy efficiency technologies.
 (3) Joint ventures supported pursuant to a recommendation under this
 subsection shall be carried out as if they were required under subsection (c).
SEC. 7. RENEWABLE ENERGY EXPORTS.
 (a) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION; ACCESS TO FOREIGN MARKETS-
 Section 256(c)(2)(D) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42
 U.S.C. 6276(c)(2)(D)) is amended--
 (1) in clause (i), by inserting after `commerce,' the following: `and to
 potential end users, including other industry sectors in foreign countries
 such as health care, rural development, communications, and refrigeration,
 and others,'; and
 (2) in clause (ii), by striking `export opportunities' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `export and export financing opportunities'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION AND PROGRAM- Section 256(d) of the Energy Policy and
 Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6276(d)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(d)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) The interagency group shall establish a program to inform other
 countries of the benefits of policies that would allow small facilities
 which produce renewable energy to compete effectively with producers of
 energy from nonrenewable sources.'.
 (c) REPORT, FUNCTIONS, AND AUTHORIZATIONS- Section 256 of the Energy Policy
 and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6276) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subsections:
 `(e) The interagency working group established under subsection (d) shall
 annually report to Congress, describing the actions of each agency represented
 by a member of the working group taken during the previous fiscal year to
 achieve the purposes of such working group and of this section. Such report
 shall describe the exports of renewable energy technology that have occurred
 as a result of such agency actions.
 `(f)(1) The interagency working group shall--
 `(A) establish, in consultation with representatives of affected industries,
 a plan to increase United States exports of renewable energy technologies,
 and include in such plan recommended guidelines for agencies that are
 represented on the working group with respect to the financing of, or other
 actions they can take within their programs to promote, exports of such
 renewable energy technologies;
 `(B) develop, in consultation with representatives of affected industries,
 recommended administrative guidelines for Federal export loan programs
 to simplify application by firms seeking export assistance for renewable
 energy technologies from agencies implementing such programs; and
 `(C) recommend specific renewable energy technology markets for primary
 emphasis by Federal export loan programs, development programs, and private
 sector assistance programs.
 `(2) The interagency working group shall include a description of the plan
 established under paragraph (1)(A) in no later than the second report
 submitted under subsection (e), and shall include in subsequent reports
 a description of any modifications to such plan and of the progress in
 implementing the plan.
 `(g) For purposes of this section, the term `renewable energy' includes
 energy efficiency to the extent it is a part of a renewable energy system
 or technology.
 `(h) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for activities
 of the interagency working group established under subsection (d) not
 to exceed--
 `(1) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1991;
 `(2) $3,300,000 for fiscal year 1992; and
 `(3) $3,600,000 for fiscal year 1993.'.
SEC. 8. RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
 (a) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION- Section 523 of the National Energy
 Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8243) is amended by adding a new subsection
 (d) as follows:
 `(d) In order to more widely disseminate information about the program
 under this part and under part 3 and the benefits of renewable energy and
 energy efficiency technology, the Secretary shall establish a program which
 includes site visits and technical briefings, to disseminate such information
 to Federal procurement officers and Federal loan officers. The Secretary
 shall utilize available funds for the program under this subsection.'.
 (b) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HOUSING- Section 2857(b)(1) of title 10,
 United States Code, is amended by striking `significant savings of
 fossil-fuel-derived energy' and inserting in lieu thereof `reduced energy
 costs'.
 (c) OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION LOANS- Section 234(e) of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by inserting after `cooperatives' the following:
 `and including the initiation of incentives, grants, and studies for
 renewable energy and other small business activities'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: `Administrative
 funds may not be made available for incentives, grants, and studies for
 renewable energy and other small business activities.'.
SEC. 9. REPORTS.
 (a) REPORT BY THE SECRETARY- One year after the date of the enactment of
 this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall report to Congress on
 the programs, projects, and joint ventures supported under this Act and the
 progress being made toward accomplishing the goals and purposes set forth
 in this Act.
 (b) National Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Management Plan-
 (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall prepare
 a management plan to be administered and carried out by the Secretary in
 the conduct of activities under this Act.
 (2) After opportunity for public comment and consideration, as appropriate,
 of such comment, the Secretary shall publish the plan.
 (3) In addition to describing the Secretary's intentions for administering
 this Act, the plan shall include a comprehensive strategy for assisting
 the private sector--
 (A) in commercializing the renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies
 developed under this Act; and
 (B) in meeting competition from foreign suppliers of products derived from
 renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.
 (4) The plan shall address the role of federally-assisted research,
 development, and demonstration in the achievement of applicable national
 policy goals of the National Energy Policy Plan required under section 801
 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7321).
 (5) The plan shall accompany the President's annual budget submission to
 the Congress.
 (c) REPORT ON OPTIONS- As part of the first report submitted under subsection
 (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report analyzing options
 available to the Secretary under existing law to assist the private sector
 with the timely commercialization of wind, photovoltaic, solar thermal,
 biofuels, hydrogen, solar buildings, ocean, geothermal, low-head hydro,
 and energy storage renewable energy technologies and energy efficiency
 technologies through emphasis on development and demonstration assistance
 to specific technologies in the research, development, and demonstration
 programs of the Department of Energy that are near commercial application.
SEC. 10. NO ANTITRUST IMMUNITY OR DEFENSES.
 Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to convey to any person, partnership,
 corporation, or other entity immunity from civil or criminal liability
 under any antitrust law or to create defenses to actions under any antitrust
 law. As used in this section, `antitrust laws' means those Acts set forth
 in section 1 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12), as amended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.