 
Calendar No. 431
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 555
[Report No. 101-232]
A BILL
To establish in the Department of the Interior the De Soto Expedition Trail
Commission, and for other purposes.
December 20, 1989
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of November 22
(legislative day, November 6), 1989, with an amendment
S 555 RS
Calendar No. 431
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 555
[Report No. 101-232]
To establish in the Department of the Interior the De Soto Expedition Trail
Commission, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 9 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. GORE, Mr. NUNN, Mr. PRYOR, Mr. COCHRAN,
Mr. FOWLER, and Mr. SHELBY) introduced the following bill; which was read
twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
December 20, 1989
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of November 22
(legislative day, November 6), 1989, by Mr. JOHNSTON, with an amendment
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
A BILL
To establish in the Department of the Interior the De Soto Expedition Trail
Commission, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
 [Struck out->] SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. []   This Act may be cited as the `De Soto Trail Commission
 Act of 1989'. [] SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. []   (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that-- []   (1) the expedition of Hernando De Soto was the first major
 European exploration of the interior of the southeastern United States
 and that the chronicles of the expedition provide a rare description of
 indigenous Indian societies; []   (2) knowledge gained as a result of the expedition
 contributed significantly to the subsequent exploration and colonization
 of the region; []   (3) discovery of the first winter encampment in Tallahassee,
 Florida, is the most recent archaeological evidence of the De Soto expedition
 in the United States; []   (4) the State of Florida has completed the marking of
 a commemorative De Soto trail and the State of Alabama has identified a
 commemorative trail to be marked by 1990; []   (5) the De Soto Trail Commission of the Southeast Region
 has identified a recommended `Highway Route of the De Soto Expedition';
 and []   (6) official commemoration of the De Soto expedition will
 increase public awareness of early European exploration of the southeastern
 United States, encourage further archaeological and historical research,
 and ultimately increase our knowledge of the early historic period of the
 southeastern United States. []   (b) PURPOSE- In furtherance of the findings set forth in
 subsection (a) of this section, it is the purpose of this Act to establish,
 through a Commission composed of individuals representing scholarly research
 and all concerned levels of government-- []   (1) a commemorative highway route of the De Soto expedition;
 []   (2) a comprehensive plan for the administration of such
 a highway route including associated public interpretive facilities; and
 []   (3) an archaeological and historical research institute
 for studies related to the De Soto expedition. [] TITLE I--DE SOTO EXPEDITION TRAIL COMMISSION [] SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT. []   (a) IN GENERAL- To carry out the purposes of this title
 and assist with the establishment of a commemorative highway route of
 the De Soto expedition, there is hereby established in the Department of
 the Interior the De Soto Expedition Trail Commission (hereafter in this
 Act referred to as the `Commission'). The Commission shall exercise its
 responsibilities and authorities as provided in this Act with respect to
 that region in southeastern United States comprising the States of Alabama,
 Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
 Carolina, Tennessee and Texas (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `involved States'). The Commission shall consist of 19 members, appointed
 by the Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Secretary') as follows: []   (1) 10 members appointed from recommendations submitted by
 the Governors of the involved States of which one shall represent each State;
 []   (2) 4 members appointed from recommendations submitted by
 the De Soto Trail Commission of the Southeast Region; []   (3) 2 members appointed from recommendations submitted by
 State Historic Preservation officers of one or more involved States both
 of whom shall represent local or county historical commissions; []   (4) 2 members appointed by the Secretary, of which one
 shall hold the position of Superintendent, De Soto National Memorial and
 the other shall have knowledge and experience in the Spanish colonization
 of southeastern United States; and []   (5) 1 member appointed by the Secretary from recommendations
 submitted by the Smithsonian Institution. []   (b) APPOINTMENT- All members of the Commission shall be
 appointed for terms of 2 years, except that the terms of the 10 members
 appointed from recommendations submitted by the Governors of the involved
 States pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be for a term of 4 years. []   (c) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a
 chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be
 2 years. []   (d) TERMS- Any member of the Commission appointed for a
 definite term may serve after the expiration of such term until a successor
 is appointed. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same
 manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed
 to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which its
 predecessor was appointed. []   (e) QUORUM- A simple majority of Commission members shall
 constitute a quorum. []   (f) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at least biannually
 or at the call of the chairperson or a majority of its members. []   (g) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve
 without compensation as such. Members shall be entitled to travel expenses
 under section 5703, title 5, United States Code, when engaged in Commission
 business, including per diem in lieu of subsistence in the same manner as
 persons employed intermittently. [] SEC. 102. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION. []   (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall-- []   (1) through the De Soto Expedition Archeological and
 Historical Institute make loans and grants, from funds appropriated for that
 purpose or from funds donated or otherwise made available to the Commission,
 to conduct archeological research and field investigations and historical
 research, and publish materials regarding the De Soto expedition for purposes
 including location of the expedition route, recovery and preservation of
 archeological or historical materials, and advancement of knowledge regarding
 Hernando de Soto, the expedition through southeastern United States and the
 native cultures inhabiting the region during the early historical period;
 []   (2) coordinate activities of Federal, State, and local
 governments and private businesses and organizations in order to further
 the commemoration of the De Soto expedition; []   (3) develop guidelines and standards consistent with
 standards established by the National Park Service for the commemoration
 of the De Soto expedition, including interpretive methods; []   (4) within 2 years submit to the Secretary, recommendations
 pertaining to the identification and designation of a highway route of the De
 Soto expedition, interpretive facilities to appropriately commemorate Spanish
 exploration, and a detailed plan to administer such route and facilities;
 and []   (5) provide advice and assistance in preparation of loan or
 grant applications to the Commission and applications for loans or grants
 from other Federal or non-Federal sources in furtherance of the purposes
 of this title. [] Any loan made under this subsection shall be for a term
 expiring before the date 4 years after the enactment of this Act and shall
 be subject to such other terms and conditions, including interest, as may be
 established by the Commission with the approval of the Secretary. []   (b) ANNUAL REPORTS- The Commission shall submit an
 annual report to the Secretary describing activities of the De Soto
 Expedition Archeological and Historical Institute, progress with respect to
 designation of a commemorative highway route and establishment of interpretive
 facilities and setting forth expenses and income and the entities to which
 any loans and grants were made during the year for which the report is
 made. The Secretary shall submit an annual report to Congress describing
 the Commission's activities. Such report shall specify research activities,
 progress with respect to commemorative route designation, and a summary of
 loans, grants, and technical assistance provided under the Act including the
 amount, recipient, and purpose of any loan, grants, and technical assistance
 so provided. The report shall also include an analysis of the adequacy of
 actions taken during the previous year to commemorate the De Soto expedition,
 conduct archeological and historical research, and publish information
 regarding the expedition and native Indian cultures encountered; as well as
 the anticipated funds and personnel to be made available by the Secretary
 during the next fiscal year to implement provisions of the Act. []   (c) COST ESTIMATES- Prior to making any grant or loan the
 Commission shall require detailed cost estimates to be prepared for the
 project to be funded. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Commission shall submit to the appropriate committees of the
 Congress detailed cost estimates for all projects planned. []   (d) EXPIRATION- The Commission established pursuant to
 this title shall cease to exist 4 years from the date of enactment of this
 Act. Any property or funds of the Commission remaining upon the expiration of
 the Commission shall be transferred by the Commission to the United States,
 to a State or local government agency, to a private nonprofit organization
 exempt from income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986, or to any combination of the foregoing. [] SEC. 103. STAFF OF THE COMMISSION. []   (a) STAFF- (1) The Commission shall have the power to
 appoint and fix the compensation of such staff as may be necessary to carry
 out its duties. []   (2) Staff appointed by the Commission-- []   (A) shall be appointed subject to the provisions of title
 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service;
 and []   (B) shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of
 chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
 classification and General Schedule pay rates. []   (b) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Subject to such rules as
 may be adopted by the Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and
 intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109(b)
 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates determined by the Commission
 to be reasonable. []   (c) STAFF OF OTHER AGENCIES- (1) Upon request of the
 Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable
 basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist the
 Commission in carrying out the Commission's duties. []   (2) The Commission may accept the services of personnel
 detailed from one or more of the involved States (and any political
 subdivision thereof) and may reimburse the State(s) or political
 subdivision(s) for those services. [] SEC. 104. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION. []   (a) IN GENERAL- The Commission may for the purpose of
 carrying out this title hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and
 places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission
 may deem advisable. []   (b) BYLAWS- The Commission may make such bylaws, rules and
 regulations, consistent with this Act, as it considers necessary to carry
 out its functions under this title. []   (c) DELEGATION- When so authorized by the Commission, any
 member or agent of the Commission may take any action which the Commission
 is authorized to take by this section. []   (d) ARCHEOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE-
 The Commission shall establish an archeological and historical research
 committee to provide technical oversight and day-to-day administration of
 the De Soto Expedition Archeological and Historical Institute. []   (e) TECHNICAL ADVISORY GROUPS- The Commission may establish
 and appoint one or more technical advisory groups to provide technical
 advice in financing, interpretive facilities, tourism, publications, and
 intergovernmental coordination. []   (f) DONATIONS- Notwithstanding any other provisions of
 law, the Commission may seek and accept donations of funds or services from
 individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private entities, and from
 public entities, for the purpose of carrying out its duties. []   (g) FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES- The Commission may use its
 funds to obtain money from any source under any program or law requiring
 the recipient of such money to make a contribution in order to receive such
 money. []   (h) OBTAINING PROPERTY- The Commission may obtain by
 purchase, rental, donation, or otherwise, such property, facilities, and
 services, as may be needed to carry out its duties except that the Commission
 may not acquire any real property or interest in real property. [] SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. []   There is hereby authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000
 to the Commission to carry out the purposes of this title. [] TITLE II--HIGHWAY ROUTE OF THE DE SOTO EXPEDITION [] SEC. 201. DESIGNATION OF THE ROUTE. []   (a) DESIGNATION- In order to provide for public appreciation,
 education, understanding, and enjoyment of the De Soto expedition and
 native Indian cultures encountered, the Secretary of the Interior, with the
 concurrence of the agency having jurisdiction over applicable public roads,
 shall designate by publication of a description thereof in the Federal
 Register, a vehicular route along existing public roads paralleling as
 closely as practicable the route of the De Soto expedition. Such route shall
 be known as the Highway Route of the De Soto Expedition (hereafter in this
 title referred to as the `route'), and shall be designated with appropriate
 markers to guide members of the public. The Secretary may provide funds
 necessary to States or local entities having jurisdiction over such roads so
 designated to erect thereon signs and other informational devices displaying
 the marker of the Highway Route of the De Soto Expedition. []   (b) INITIAL ROUTE- The route as initially designated
 shall include that portion as designated by the State of Florida described
 as Florida Highway 64 from De Soto National Memorial to Bradenton, thence
 U.S. Highway 301 to Bushnell, thence U.S. Highway 48 to Floral City, thence
 U.S. Highway 41 to Williston, thence Florida Highway 121 to Gainesville,
 thence Highway 90 to Florida/Georgia State line and that portion proposed
 to be designated by the State of Alabama described as U.S. Highway 278 from
 the Georgia/Alabama State line to Piedmont, thence Alabama Highway 21 to
 Winterboro, thence Alabama Highway 76 to Childersburg, thence U.S. Highway
 231 to Montgomery, thence U.S. Highway 80 to Uniontown, thence Alabama
 Highway 61 to Greensboro, thence Alabama Highway 69 to Tuscaloosa, thence
 U.S. Highway 82 to the Alabama/Mississippi State line. []   (c) ADDITIONAL SEGMENTS- The Secretary may, in the manner
 set forth in section 201 of this title, designate additional segments of the
 route from time to time upon the recommendation of the De Soto Expedition
 Trail Commission as provided by section 102(a)(4). [] SEC. 202. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. []   With respect to segments of the route, the Secretary
 may, pursuant to cooperative agreements with the De Soto Expedition Trail
 Commission, provide technical assistance in the development of interpretive
 devices and materials in order to contribute to public appreciation of the
 archeological, historical, and cultural values along the route. [] SEC. 203. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. []   There is hereby authorized to be appropriated $500,000
 to the Secretary to carry out the purposes of this title. No funds made
 available under this title shall be used for the operation, maintenance,
 or repair, of any road or related structure. [