 
--S.553--
S.553
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide for more balance in the stocks of dairy products purchased by the
Commodity Credit Corporation.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PURCHASE PRICE FOR NON-FAT DRY MILK AND BUTTER.
 (a) MODIFICATION OF PURCHASE PRICE FOR NON-FAT DRY MILK AND BUTTER-
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to purchases of
 butter and non-fat dry milk made under section 201(d) of the Agricultural
 Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446(d)), the Secretary of Agriculture, in carrying
 out the temporary $0.50 per hundredweight increase in the rate of price
 support for milk provided for in section 102(b) of the Disaster Assistance
 Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1446 note), shall provide that at least 75 percent of
 such price support increase shall be reflected in the purchase price for
 non-fat dry milk and that not more than 25 percent of such price support
 increase shall be reflected in the purchase price for butter.
 (b) DECREASE IN PURCHASE PRICE FOR NON-FAT DRY MILK AND BUTTER-
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to purchases of
 butter and non-fat dry milk made under section 201(d) of the Agricultural Act
 of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446(d)), the Secretary of Agriculture, in implementing
 the $0.50 per hundredweight decrease in the rate of price support for milk
 scheduled to occur on July 1, 1989 (as provided in section 102(b) of the
 Disaster Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1446 note)), shall provide that
 not more than 25 percent of such price support decrease shall be reflected
 in the purchase price for non-fat dry milk and that at least 75 percent of
 such price support decrease shall be reflected in the purchase price for
 butter: Provided, however, That the Secretary of Agriculture may allocate
 such decrease in the rate of price support between the purchase prices for
 non-fat dry milk and butter in such other manner as the Secretary determines
 will result in the lowest level of expenditures by the Commodity Credit
 Corporation and shall notify the Committee on Agriculture of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
 of the Senate of such determination.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.