 
--S.605--
S.605
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO ACTS
SEC. 101. REFERENCE.
 Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this title an
 amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of,
 a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made
 to a section or other provision of the Consumer Product Safety Act.
SEC. 102. QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.
 Section 4(a) (15 U.S.C. 2053(a)) is amended by inserting immediately after
 the first sentence the following: `In making such appointments, the President
 shall consider individuals who, by reason of their background and expertise
 in areas related to consumer products and protection of the public from
 risks to safety, are qualified to serve as members of the Commission.'.
SEC. 103. QUORUM ON COMMISSION.
 The first sentence of section 4(d) (15 U.S.C. 2053(d)) is amended by inserting
 before the period a comma and the following: `except that if there are
 only three members serving on the Commission because of vacancies in the
 Commission, two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
 the transaction of business, and if there are only two members serving on
 the Commission because of vacancies in the Commission, two members shall
 constitute a quorum for the six month period beginning on the date of the
 vacancy which caused the number of Commission members to decline to two'.
SEC. 104. APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN PERSONNEL.
 Section 4(g)(1) (15 U.S.C. 2053(g)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(g)(1)(A) The Chairman, subject to the approval of the Commission, shall
 appoint as officers of the Commission an Executive Director, a General
 Counsel, an Associate Executive Director for Engineering Sciences, an
 Associate Executive Director for Epidemiology, an Associate Executive Director
 for Compliance and Administrative Litigation, an Associate Executive Director
 for Health Sciences, an Associate Executive Director for Economic Analysis,
 an Associate Executive Director for Administration, an Associate Executive
 Director for Field Operations, a Director for Office of Program, Management,
 and Budget, and a Director for Office of Information and Public Affairs. Any
 other individual appointed to a position designated as an Associate Executive
 Director shall be appointed by the Chairman, subject to the approval of the
 Commission. The Chairman may only appoint an attorney to the position of
 Associate Executive Director of Compliance and Administrative Litigation
 except the position of acting Associate Executive Director of Compliance
 and Administrative Litigation.
 `(B)(i) No individual may be appointed to such a position on an acting
 basis for a period longer than 90 days unless such appointment is approved
 by the Commission.
 `(ii) The Chairman, with the approval of the Commission, may remove any
 individual serving in a position appointed under subparagraph (A).
 `(C) Subparagraph (A) shall not be construed to prohibit appropriate
 reorganizations or changes in classification.'.
SEC. 105. PRIORITIES.
 (a) AMENDMENT- Section 4 (15 U.S.C. 2053) is amended by adding at the end
 the following:
 `(j) At least 30 days before the beginning of each fiscal year, the
 Commission shall establish an agenda for Commission action under the
 Acts under its jurisdiction and, to the extent feasible, shall establish
 priorities for such actions. Before establishing such agenda and priorities,
 the Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the agenda and priorities
 and shall provide reasonable opportunity for the submission of comments.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 respect to fiscal years which begin more than 180 days after the date of
 the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 106. DISCLOSURE TO CONTRACTORS.
 Paragraph (8) of section 6(a) (15 U.S.C. 2055(a)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(8) The provisions of paragraphs (2) through (6) shall not prohibit the
 disclosure of information to other officers, employees, or representatives
 of the Commission (including contractors) concerned with carrying out this
 Act or when relevant in any administrative proceeding under this Act or in
 judicial proceedings to which the Commission is a party. Any disclosure of
 relevant information--
 `(A) in Commission administrative proceedings or in judicial proceedings
 to which the Commission is a party, or
 `(B) to representatives of the Commission (including contractors),
shall be governed by the rules of the Commission (including in camera review
rules for confidential material) for such proceedings or for disclosures
to such representatives or by court rules or orders, except that the rules
of the Commission shall not be amended in a manner inconsistent with the
purposes of this section.'.
SEC. 107. MONITORING COMPLIANCE.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT- Section 7(b) (15 U.S.C. 2056(b)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(b)', and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) The Commission shall devise procedures to monitor compliance with any
 voluntary standards--
 `(A) upon which the Commission has relied under paragraph (1);
 `(B) which were developed with the participation of the Commission; or
 `(C) whose development the Commission has monitored.'.
 (b) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 3(g) of the Federal Hazardous
 Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1262(g)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following:
 `(3) The Commission shall devise procedures to monitor compliance with any
 voluntary standards--
 `(A) upon which the Commission has relied under paragraph (2) of this
 subsection;
 `(B) which were developed with the participation of the Commission; or
 `(C) whose development the Commission has monitored.'.
 (c) FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT- Section 4(h) of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15
 U.S.C. 1193(h)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(3) The Commission shall devise procedures to monitor compliance with any
 voluntary standards--
 `(A) upon which the Commission has relied under paragraph (2) of this
 subsection;
 `(B) which were developed with the participation of the Commission; or
 `(C) whose development the Commission has monitored.'.
SEC. 108. VOLUNTARY STANDARDS.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT- Section 9(b)(2) (15 U.S.C. 2058(b)(2))
 is amended by striking out the period and inserting the following: `,
 except that the Commission shall terminate any such proceeding and rely on
 a voluntary standard only if such voluntary standard is in existence. For
 purposes of this section, a voluntary standard shall be considered to be in
 existence when it is finally approved by the organization or other person
 which developed such standard, irrespective of the effective date of the
 standard. Before relying upon any voluntary consumer product safety standard,
 the Commission shall afford interested persons (including manufacturers,
 consumers, and consumer organizations) a reasonable opportunity to submit
 written comments regarding such standard. The Commission shall consider
 such comments in making any determination regarding reliance on the involved
 voluntary standard under this subsection.'.
 (b) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 3(g)(2) of the Federal
 Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1262(g)(2)) is amended by striking
 out the period and inserting the following: `, except that the Commission
 shall terminate any such proceeding and rely on a voluntary standard only
 if such voluntary standard is in existence. For purposes of this section,
 a voluntary standard shall be considered to be in existence when it is
 finally approved by the organization or other person which developed such
 standard, irrespective of the effective date of the standard. Before relying
 upon any voluntary standard, the Commission shall afford interested persons
 (including manufacturers, consumers, and consumer organizations) a reasonable
 opportunity to submit written comments regarding such standard. The Commission
 shall consider such comments in making any determination regarding reliance
 on the involved voluntary standard under this subsection.'.
 (c) FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT- Section 4(h)(2) of the Flammable Fabrics Act
 (15 U.S.C. 1193(h)(2)) is amended by striking out the period and inserting
 the following: `, except that the Commission shall terminate any such
 proceeding and rely on a voluntary standard only if such voluntary standard
 is in existence. For purposes of this section, a voluntary standard shall be
 considered to be in existence when it is finally approved by the organization
 or other person which developed such standard, irrespective of the
 effective date of the standard. Before relying upon any voluntary standard,
 the Commission shall afford interested persons (including manufacturers,
 consumers, and consumer organizations) a reasonable opportunity to submit
 written comments regarding such standard. The Commission shall consider
 such comments in making any determination regarding reliance on the involved
 voluntary standard under this subsection.'.
SEC. 109. PROPOSED RULES.
 Section 9(c) (15 U.S.C. 2058(c)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following: `Any proposed consumer product safety rule shall be issued
 within twelve months after the date of publication of an advance notice of
 proposed rulemaking under subsection (a) relating to the product involved,
 unless the Commission determines that such proposed rule is not reasonably
 necessary to eliminate or reduce the risk of injury associated with the
 product or is not in the public interest. The Commission may extend the
 twelve-month period for good cause. If the Commission extends such period,
 it shall immediately transmit notice of such extension to the Committee
 on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee
 on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives. Such notice shall
 include an explanation of the reasons for such extension, together with an
 estimate of the date by which the Commission anticipates such rulemaking
 will be completed. The Commission shall publish notice of such extension
 and the information submitted to the Congress in the Federal Register.'.
SEC. 110. PETITIONS AND VOLUNTARY STANDARDS.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT- Section 9 (15 U.S.C. 2058) is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
 `(i) The Commission shall grant, in whole or in part, or deny any petition
 under section 553(e) of title 5, United States Code, requesting the Commission
 to initiate a rulemaking, within a reasonable time after the date on which
 such petition is filed. The Commission shall state the reasons for granting
 or denying such petition. The Commission may not deny any such petition
 on the basis of a voluntary standard unless the voluntary standard is in
 existence at the time of the denial of the petition, the Commission has
 determined that the voluntary standard is likely to result in the elimination
 or adequate reduction of the risk of injury identified in the petition, and
 it is likely that there will be substantial compliance with the standard.'.
 (b) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 3 of the Federal Hazardous
 Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1262) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(j) The Commission shall grant, in whole or in part, or deny any petition
 under section 553(e) of title 5, United States Code, requesting the Commission
 to initiate a rulemaking, within a reasonable time after the date on which
 such petition is filed. The Commission shall state the reasons for granting
 or denying such petition. The Commission may not deny any such petition
 on the basis of a voluntary standard unless the voluntary standard is in
 existence at the time of the denial of the petition, the Commission has
 determined that the voluntary standard is likely to result in the elimination
 or adequate reduction of the risk of injury identified in the petition, and
 it is likely that there will be substantial compliance with the standard.'.
 (c) FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT- Section 4 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15
 U.S.C. 1193) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(k) The Commission shall grant, in whole or in part, or deny any petition
 under section 553(e) of title 5, United States Code, requesting the Commission
 to initiate a rulemaking, within a reasonable time after the date on which
 such petition is filed. The Commission shall state the reasons for granting
 or denying such petition. The Commission may not deny any such petition
 on the basis of a voluntary standard unless the voluntary standard is in
 existence at the time of the denial of the petition, the Commission has
 determined that the voluntary standard is likely to result in the elimination
 or adequate reduction of the risk of injury identified in the petition, and
 it is likely that there will be substantial compliance with the standard.'.
SEC. 111. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT-
 (1) Section 12 (15 U.S.C. 2061) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(g) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Commission,
 in determining whether to bring an action against a consumer product or a
 person under this section, to prepare a comparison of the costs that would
 be incurred in complying with the relief that may be ordered in such action
 with the benefits to the public from such relief.'.
 (2) Section 15 (15 U.S.C. 2064) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(h) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Commission,
 in determining that a product distributed in commerce presents a substantial
 product hazard and that notification or other action under this section
 should be taken, to prepare a comparison of the costs that would be incurred
 in providing notification or taking other action under this section with
 the benefits from such notification or action.'.
 (b) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 15 of the Federal Hazardous
 Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1274) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(g) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Commission,
 in determining that an article or substance distributed in commerce presents
 a substantial product hazard and that notification or other action under
 this section should be taken, to prepare a comparison of the costs that
 would be incurred in providing notification or taking other action under
 this section with the benefits from such notification or action.'.
SEC. 112. INFORMATION REPORTING TO CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION.
 (a) SECTION 15(b) REPORTING- Section 15(b) (15 U.S.C. 2064(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `; or' and inserting in lieu thereof `or
 with a voluntary consumer product safety standard upon which the Commission
 has relied under section 9;';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the comma and inserting in lieu thereof
 `; or';
 (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (2) the following:
 `(3) creates an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death,';
 (4) by striking `comply or of such defect,' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `comply, of such defect, or of such risk,'; and
 (5) by striking `defect or failure to comply.' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `defect, failure to comply, or such risk.'.
 (b) INFORMATION REPORTING- The Consumer Product Safety Act is amended by
 adding at the end the following new section:
`INFORMATION REPORTING
 `SEC. 37. (a) If a particular model of a consumer product is the subject
 of at least 3 civil actions that have been filed in Federal or State
 court for death or grievous bodily injury which in each of the 24-month
 periods defined in subsection (b) result in either a final settlement
 involving the manufacturer or a court judgment in favor of the plaintiff,
 the manufacturer of such product shall, in accordance with subsection (c),
 report to the Commission each such civil action within 30 days after the
 final settlement or court judgment in the third of such civil actions, and,
 within 30 days after any subsequent settlement or judgment in that 24-month
 period, any other such action.
 `(b) The 24-month periods referred to in subsection (a) are the 24-month
 period commencing on January 1, 1991, and subsequent 24-month periods
 beginning on January 1 of the calendar year that is two years following
 the beginning of the previous 24-month period.
 `(c)(1) The information required by subsection (a) to be reported to the
 Commission, with respect to each civil action described in subsection (a),
 shall include and in addition to any voluntary information provided under
 paragraph (2) shall be limited to the following:
 `(A) The name and address of the manufacturer.
 `(B) The model and model number or designation of the consumer product
 subject to the civil action.
 `(C) A statement as to whether the civil action alleged death or grievous
 bodily injury, and in the case of an allegation of grievous bodily injury,
 a statement of the category of such injury.
 `(D) A statement as to whether the civil action resulted in a final settlement
 or a judgment in favor of the plaintiff.
 `(E) in the case of a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the name of the
 civil action, the number assigned the civil action, and the court in which
 the civil action was filed.
 `(2) A manufacturer furnishing the report required by paragraph (1) may
 include (A) a statement as to whether any judgment in favor of the plaintiff
 is under appeal or is expected to be appealed or (B) any other information
 which the manufacturer chooses to provide. A manufacturer reporting to the
 Commission under subsection (a) need not admit or may specifically deny
 that the information it submits reasonably supports the conclusion that
 its consumer product caused a death or grievous bodily injury.
 `(3) No statement of the amount paid by the manufacturer in a final settlement
 shall be required as part of the report furnished under subsection (a),
 nor shall such a statement of settlement amount be required under any other
 section of this Act.
 `(d) The reporting of a civil action described in subsection (a) by a
 manufacturer shall not constitute an admission of--
 `(1) an unreasonable risk of injury,
 `(2) a defect in the consumer product which was the subject of such action,
 `(3) a substantial product hazard,
 `(4) an imminent hazard, or
 `(5) any other admission of liability under any statute or under any
 common law.'.
 `(e) For purposes of this section:
 `(1) A grievous bodily injury includes any of the following categories
 of injury: mutilation, amputation, dismemberment, disfigurement, loss
 of important bodily functions, debilitating internal disorder, severe
 burn, severe electric shock, and injuries likely to require extended
 hospitalization.
 `(2) For purposes of this section, a particular model of a consumer product
 is one that is distinctive in functional design, construction, warnings
 or instructions related to safety, function, user population, or other
 characteristics which could affect the product's safety related performance.'.
 (c) Section 6 (15 U.S.C. 2055) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(e)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 552 of title 5, United
 States Code, subsection (a)(7) of this section, or of any other law, except
 as provided in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), no member of the Commission,
 no officer or employee of the Commission, and no officer or employee of
 the Department of Justice may--
 `(A) publicly disclose information furnished under subsection (c)(1) or
 (c)(2)(A) of section 37;
 `(B) use such information for any purpose other than to carry out the
 Commission's responsibilities; or
 `(C) permit anyone (other than the members, officers, and employees of
 the Commission or officers or employees of the Department of Justice who
 require such information for an action filed on behalf of the Commission)
 to examine such information.
 `(2) Any report furnished under subsection (c)(1) or (c)(2)(A) of section 37
 shall be immune from legal process and shall not be subject to subpoena or
 other discovery in any civil action in a State or Federal court or in any
 administrative proceeding, except in an action against such manufacturer
 under section 20, 21, or 22 for failure to furnish information required by
 section 37.
 `(3) The Commission may, upon written request, furnish to any manufacturer
 or to the authorized agent of such manufacturer authenticated copies of
 reports furnished by or on behalf of such manufacturer in accordance with
 section 37, upon payment of the actual or estimated cost of searching the
 records and furnishing such copies.
 `(4) Upon written request of the Chairman or Ranking Minority Member of
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate or
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives or any
 subcommittee of such committee, the Commission shall provide to the Chairman
 or Ranking Minority Member any information furnished to the Commission
 under section 37 for purposes that are related to the jurisdiction of such
 committee or subcommittee.
 `(5) Any officer or employee of the Commission or other officer or employee
 of the Federal Government who receives information provided under section 37,
 who willfully violates the requirements of this subsection shall be subject to
 dismissal or other appropriate disciplinary action consistent with procedures
 and requirements established by the Office of Personnel Management.'.
 (d) PROHIBITED ACT- Section 19(a) (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(11) fail to furnish information required by section 37.'.
 (e) CIVIL PENALTIES- The second sentence of section 20(a)(1) (15
 U.S.C. 2069(a)(1)) is amended by striking `or (10)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `(10), or (11)'.
 (f) CONGRESSIONAL REPORTS-
 (1) The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall report to the Congress on
 the extent to which reports made to the Commission under section 37 of the
 Consumer Product Safety Act have assisted the Commission in carrying out
 its responsibilities under such Act. The report--
 (A) shall provide aggregate data and not the details and contents of
 individual reports filed with the Commission pursuant to such section 37,
 (B) shall not disclose the brand names of products included in reports under
 such section 15(b) or 37 or the number of reports under such sections for
 particular models or classes of products, and
 (C) shall include--
 (i) a comparison of the number of reports received under such section 37
 and the number of reports received under section 15(b) of such Act,
 (ii) a comparison of the number of reports filed with the Commission before
 the date of the enactment of this Act and after such date, and
 (iii) the total number of settlements and court judgments reported under
 such section 37 and the total number of rulemakings and enforcement actions
 undertaken in response to such reports,
 (iv) recommendations of the Commission for additional improvements in
 reporting under the Consumer Product Safety Act.
 (2) The first report under paragraph (1) shall be due February 1, 1992,
 and the second such report shall be due April 1, 1993.
SEC. 113. SETTLEMENT OFFERS.
 Section 15(f) (15 U.S.C. 2064(f)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following: `Any settlement offer which is submitted to the presiding officer
 at a hearing under this subsection shall be transmitted by the officer to
 the Commission for its consideration unless the settlement offer is clearly
 frivolous or duplicative of offers previously made.'.
SEC. 114. PRODUCT SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM.
 Section 17 (15 U.S.C. 2066) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(h)(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a permanent product
 surveillance program, in cooperation with other appropriate Federal agencies,
 for the purpose of carrying out the Commission's responsibilities under
 this Act and the other Acts administered by the Commission and preventing
 the entry of unsafe consumer products into the commerce of the United States.
 `(2) The Commission may provide to the agencies with which it is cooperating
 under paragraph (1) such information, data, violator lists, test results,
 and other support, guidance, and documents as may be necessary or helpful
 for such agencies to cooperate with the Commission to carry out the product
 surveillance program under paragraph (1).
 `(3) The Commission shall periodically report to the Congress the results
 of the surveillance program under paragraph (1).'.
SEC. 115. CIVIL PENALTIES.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT- Section 20(a) (15 U.S.C. 2069(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `$2,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$5,000';
 (2) by striking `$500,000' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `$1,250,000'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(3)(A) The maximum penalty amounts authorized in paragraph (1) shall be
 adjusted for inflation as provided in this paragraph.
 `(B) Not later than December 1, 1994, and December 1 of each fifth calendar
 year thereafter, the Commission shall prescribe and publish in the Federal
 Register a schedule of maximum authorized penalties that shall apply for
 violations that occur after January 1 of the year immediately following
 such publication.
 `(C) The schedule of maximum authorized penalties shall be prescribed
 by increasing each of the amounts referred to in paragraph (1) by the
 cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years. Any increase
 determined under the preceding sentence shall be rounded to--
 `(i) in the case of penalties greater than $1,000 but less than or equal
 to $10,000, the nearest multiple of $1,000;
 `(ii) in the case of penalties greater than $10,000 but less than or equal
 to $100,000, the nearest multiple of $5,000;
 `(iii) in the case of penalties greater than $100,000 but less than or
 equal to $200,000, the nearest multiple of $10,000; and
 `(iv) in the case of penalties greater than $200,000, the nearest multiple
 of $25,000.
 `(D) For purposes of this subsection:
 `(i) The term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer Price Index for
 all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor.
 `(ii) The term `cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years'
 means the percentage by which--
 `(I) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year
 preceding the adjustment; exceeds
 `(II) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June preceding the date on
 which the maximum authorized penalty was last adjusted.'.
 (b) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 5 of the Federal Hazardous
 Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1264) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(c)(1) Any person who knowingly violates section 4 shall be subject to
 a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each such violation. Subject to
 paragraph (2), a violation of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (i),
 (j), and (k) of section 4 shall constitute a separate offense with respect
 to each substance involved, except that the maximum civil penalty shall
 not exceed $1,250,000 for any related series of violations. A violation of
 section 4(e) shall constitute a separate violation with respect to each
 failure or refusal to allow or perform an act required by section 4(e);
 and, if such violation is a continuing one, each day of such violation shall
 constitute a separate offense, except that the maximum civil penalty shall
 not exceed $1,250,000 for any related series of violations.
 `(2) The second sentence of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not
 apply to violations of subsection (a) or (c) of section 4--
 `(A) if the person who violated such subsection is not the manufacturer,
 importer, or private labeler or a distributor of the substances involved; and
 `(B) if such person did not have either (i) actual knowledge that such
 person's distribution or sale of the substance violated such subsection,
 or (ii) notice from the Commission that such distribution or sale would be
 a violation of such subsection.
 `(3) In determining the amount of any penalty to be sought upon commencing
 an action seeking to assess a penalty for a violation of section 4, the
 Commission shall consider the nature of the substance, the severity of
 the risk of injury, the occurrence or absence of injury, the amount of the
 substance distributed, and the appropriateness of such penalty in relation
 to the size of the business of the person charged.
 `(4) Any civil penalty under this subsection may be compromised by the
 Commission. In determining the amount of such penalty or whether it should
 be remitted or mitigated, and in what amount, the Commission shall consider
 the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the
 persons charged, the nature of the substance involved, the severity of the
 risk of injury, the occurrence or absence of injury, and the amount of the
 substance distributed. The amount of such penalty when finally determined,
 or the amount agreed on compromise, may be deducted from any sums owing by
 the United States to the person charged.
 `(5) As used in the first sentence of paragraph (1), the term `knowingly'
 means (A) having actual knowledge, or (B) the presumed having of knowledge
 deemed to be possessed by a reasonable person who acts in the circumstances,
 including knowledge obtainable upon the exercise of due care to ascertain
 the truth of representations.
 `(6)(A) The maximum penalty amounts authorized in paragraph (1) shall be
 adjusted for inflation as provided in this paragraph.
 `(B) Not later than December 1, 1994, and December 1 of each fifth calendar
 year thereafter, the Commission shall prescribe and publish in the Federal
 Register a schedule of maximum authorized penalties that shall apply for
 violations that occur after January 1 of the year immediately following
 such publication.
 `(C) The schedule of maximum authorized penalties shall be prescribed
 by increasing each of the amounts referred to in paragraph (1) by the
 cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years. Any increase
 determined under the preceding sentence shall be rounded to--
 `(i) in the case of penalties greater than $1,000 but less than or equal
 to $10,000, the nearest multiple of $1,000;
 `(ii) in the case of penalties greater than $10,000 but less than or equal
 to $100,000, the nearest multiple of $5,000;
 `(iii) in the case of penalties greater than $100,000 but less than or
 equal to $200,000, the nearest multiple of $10,000; and
 `(iv) in the case of penalties greater than $200,000, the nearest multiple
 of $25,000.
 `(D) For purposes of this subsection:
 `(i) The term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer Price Index for
 all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor.
 `(ii) The term `cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years'
 means the percentage by which--
 `(I) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year
 preceding the adjustment; exceeds
 `(II) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June preceding the date on
 which the maximum authorized penalty was last adjusted.'.
 (c) FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT- Section 5 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15
 U.S.C. 1264) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(e)(1) Any person who knowingly violates a regulation or standard under
 section 4 shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for
 each such violation, except that the maximum civil penalty shall not exceed
 $1,250,000 for any related series of violations.
 `(2) In determining the amount of any penalty to be sought upon commencing an
 action seeking to assess a penalty for a violation of a regulation or standard
 under section 4, the Commission shall consider the nature and number of the
 violations, the severity of the risk of injury, the occurrence or absence
 of injury, and the appropriateness of such penalty in relation to the size
 of the business of the person charged.
 `(3) Any civil penalty under this subsection may be compromised by the
 Commission. In determining the amount of such penalty or whether it should be
 remitted or mitigated, and in what amount, the Commission shall consider the
 nature and number of the violations, the appropriateness of such penalty to
 the size of the business of the persons charged, the severity of the risk
 of injury, and the occurrence or absence of injury. The amount of such
 penalty when finally determined, or the amount agreed on compromise, may
 be deducted from any sums owing by the United States to the person charged.
 `(4) As used in paragraph (1), the term `knowingly' means (A) having
 actual knowledge, or (B) the presumed having of knowledge deemed to be
 possessed by a reasonable person who acts in the circumstances, including
 knowledge obtainable upon the exercise of due care to ascertain the truth
 of representations.
 `(5)(A) The maximum penalty amounts authorized in paragraph (1) shall be
 adjusted for inflation as provided in this paragraph.
 `(B) Not later than December 1, 1994, and December 1 of each fifth calendar
 year thereafter, the Commission shall prescribe and publish in the Federal
 Register a schedule of maximum authorized penalties that shall apply for
 violations that occur after January 1 of the year immediately following
 such publication.
 `(C) The schedule of maximum authorized penalties shall be prescribed
 by increasing each of the amounts referred to in paragraph (1) by the
 cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years. Any increase
 determined under the preceding sentence shall be rounded to--
 `(i) in the case of penalties greater than $1,000 but less than or equal
 to $10,000, the nearest multiple of $1,000;
 `(ii) in the case of penalties greater than $10,000 but less than or equal
 to $100,000, the nearest multiple of $5,000;
 `(iii) in the case of penalties greater than $100,000 but less than or
 equal to $200,000, the nearest multiple of $10,000; and
 `(iv) in the case of penalties greater than $200,000, the nearest multiple
 of $25,000.
 `(D) For purposes of this subsection:
 `(i) The term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer Price Index for
 all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor.
 `(ii) The term `cost-of-living adjustment for the preceding five years'
 means the percentage by which--
 `(I) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year
 preceding the adjustment; exceeds
 `(II) the Consumer Price Index for the month of June preceding the date on
 which the maximum authorized penalty was last adjusted.'.
 (d) REPORT ON CIVIL PENALTIES-
 (1) Beginning 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and every
 year thereafter, the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall submit to
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the
 information specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection. Such information
 may be included in the annual report to the Congress submitted by the
 Commission.
 (2) The Commission shall submit information with respect to the imposition
 of civil penalties under the statutes which it administers. The information
 shall include the number of civil penalties imposed, an identification of
 the violations that led to the imposition of such penalties, and the amount
 of revenue recovered from the imposition of such penalties.
SEC. 116. CHRONIC HAZARD ADVISORY PANEL.
 Section 28(b)(1) (15 U.S.C. 2077(b)(1)) is amended by inserting immediately
 after `States' the following: `(other than employees of the National
 Institutes of Health, the National Toxicology Program, or the National
 Center for Toxicological Research)'.
SEC. 117. AUTHORIZATION.
 Section 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 2081(a)) is amended by striking out paragraphs
 (1) through (9) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(1) $42,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and
 `(2) $45,000,000 for fiscal year 1992.'.
SEC. 118. ENFORCEMENT BY STATE ATTORNEYS GENERAL.
 (a) FEDERAL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT- Section 5 of the Federal Hazardous
 Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1264), as amended by section 115(b) of this Act,
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(d) In the case of an attorney general of a State alleging a violation that
 affects or may affect such State or its residents, such attorney general may
 bring a civil action for an injunction to enforce any requirement of this
 Act relating to misbranded or banned hazardous substances. The procedural
 requirements of section 24 of the Consumer Product Safety Act shall apply
 to any such action.'.
 (b) FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT- Section 5(a) of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15
 U.S.C. 1194(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: `In the
 case of an attorney general of a State alleging a violation of a standard
 or regulation under section 4 that affects or may affect such State or its
 residents, such attorney general may bring a civil action for an injunction
 to enforce the requirement of such standard or regulation. The procedural
 requirements of section 24 of the Consumer Product Safety Act shall apply
 to any such action.'.
SEC. 119. USER FEE STUDY.
 The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall conduct a study of the
 feasibility of requiring entities subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act
 to pay to the Commission amounts to defray the reasonable costs of particular
 services provided by the Commission to such entities. The Commission shall
 complete the study within one year of the date of the enactment of this
 Act and shall report the results of the study to the Congress.
TITLE II--RELATED PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. LIGHTERS.
 The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall pursue its pending proceedings
 to establish a safety standard for cigarette lighters, taking into account
 the need to protect children from harm from lighters.
SEC. 202. INDOOR AIR POLLUTANTS.
 Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall report to Congress on its
 activities to reduce exposure of individuals to indoor air pollutants. Such
 report shall--
 (1) briefly describe the activities of the Commission before such date of
 enactment in the area of indoor air quality,
 (2) contain a detailed discussion of (A) the current activities of the
 Commission in such area, and (B) the further activities which the Commission
 plans to provide remedial measures to address the indoor air quality problems
 identified by the Commission,
 (3) discuss the nature of indoor air quality hazards, the association of
 consumer products with such hazard, and, to the extent known, remedial
 measures which may be taken with respect to such hazard, and
 (4) discuss the Commission's overall strategies and plans for addressing
 the identified indoor air quality hazards and for identifying and remedying
 such hazards.
SEC. 203. AUTOMATIC GARAGE DOOR OPENERS.
 (a) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY RULE- The provisions of subsection (b) shall
 be considered to be a consumer product safety rule issued by the Consumer
 Product Safety Commission under section 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS-
 (1) Effective on and after January 1, 1991, each automatic residential
 garage door opener manufactured on or after that date for sale in the
 United States shall conform to the entrapment protection requirements
 of the American National Standards Institute Underwriters Laboratories,
 Inc. Standards for Safety--UL 325, third edition, as revised May 4, 1988.
 (2)(A) Effective on and after January 1, 1993, all residential automatic
 garage door openers manufactured on and after such date for sale in the United
 States shall conform to any additional entrapment protection requirements
 of the American National Standards Institute Underwriters Laboratories,
 Inc. Standards for Safety--UL 325, third edition, which were issued after
 the date of the enactment of this Act to become effective on or before
 January 1, 1993.
 (B) If, by June 1, 1992, the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., has not
 issued a revision to the May 4, 1988, Standards for Safety--UL 325, third
 edition, to require an entrapment protection feature or device in addition
 to that required by the May 4, 1988, Standard, the Consumer Product Safety
 Commission shall begin a rulemaking proceeding, to be completed no later
 than October 31, 1992, to require an additional such feature or device
 on all automatic residential garage door openers manufactured on or after
 January 1, 1993, for sale in the United States. If such a revision is issued
 by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. after the rulemaking has commenced,
 the rulemaking shall be terminated and the revision shall be incorporated in
 the consumer product safety rule under subsection (a) unless the Commission
 has determined under subsection (c) that such revision does not carry out
 the purposes of subsection (b).
 (c) REVISION OF RULE- If, after June 1, 1992, or the date of a revision
 described in subsection (b)(2)(B) if later, the Underwriters Laboratories,
 Inc. proposes to further revise the entrapment protection requirements
 of the American National Standards Institute Underwriters Laboratories,
 Inc. Standards for Safety--UL 325, third edition, the Laboratories shall
 notify the Consumer Product Safety Commission of the proposed revision
 and the proposed revision shall be incorporated in the consumer product
 safety rule under subsection (a) unless, within 30 days of such notice,
 the Commission notifies the Laboratories that the Commission has determined
 that such revision does not carry out the purposes of subsection (b).
 (d) LABELING- On and after January 1, 1991, a manufacturer selling or
 offering for sale in the United States an automatic residential garage door
 opener manufactured on or after January 1, 1991, shall clearly identify on
 any container of the system and on the system the month or week and year
 the system was manufactured and its conformance with the requirements of
 subsection (b). The display of the UL logo or listing mark, and compliance
 with the date marking requirements of UL 325, on both the container and
 the system, shall satisfy the requirements of this subsection.
 (e) NOTIFICATION- Effective on and after July 1, 1991, all manufacturers
 of automatic residential garage door openers shall, in consultation with
 the Consumer Product Safety Commission, notify the public of the potential
 for entrapment by garage doors equipped with automatic garage door openers
 and advise the public to test their openers for the entrapment protection
 feature or device required by subsection (b).
 (f) PREEMPTION- In applying section 26(a) of the Consumer Product Safety
 Act (15 U.S.C. 2075) with respect to the consumer product safety rule of
 the Consumer Product Safety Commission under subsection (a), only those
 provisions of laws of States or political subdivisions which relate to the
 labeling of automatic residential garage door openers and those provisions
 which do not provide at least the equivalent degree of protection from the
 risk of injury associated with automatic residential garage door openers
 as the consumer product safety rule provides shall be subject to such section.
 (g) REGULATIONS- Section 553 of title 5, United States Code, shall apply with
 respect to the issuance of any regulations by the Consumer Product Safety
 Commission to implement the requirements of this section and sections 7 and
 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act do not apply to such issuance. Any
 additional or revised requirement issued by the Commission shall provide
 an adequate degree of protection to the public.
 (h) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall affect or modify in any
 way the obligations or liabilities of any person under the common law or
 any Federal or State law.
SEC. 204. STUDY OF AVERSIVE AGENTS.
 The Consumer Product Safety Commission shall conduct a study of requiring
 manufacturers of consumer products to include aversive agents, as appropriate,
 in products which present a hazard if ingested to determine the potential
 effectiveness of the aversive agents in deterring ingestion. In conducting the
 study, the Commission shall consult with appropriate consumer, health, and
 business organizations and appropriate government agencies. The Commission
 shall report to Congress the status of the study within one year of the
 date of the enactment of this Act and shall complete the study not later
 than 2 years after such date of enactment.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.