 
--S.620--
S.620
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
For the relief of Leroy W. Shebal of North Pole, Alaska.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including, but not
 limited to section 8 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1279) or
 any provision of the public land laws of the United States, the Secretary
 shall survey and convey all right, title, and interest of the United States
 in the approximately five acres located at township 8 north, range 1 west,
 section 36, west half of southwest quarter, Fairbanks Meridian and described
 in Small Tract Application Numbered F-021611 and which is currently under
 permit to Leroy W. Shebal, to Leroy W. Shebal in exchange for the sum of
 $650 in 1965 dollars adjusted for inflation to 1990 dollars or $3,000,
 whichever is less, and subject to the following conditions:
 (a) existing improvements on such property may not be substantially expanded
 and use of the property is limited to prior or current levels;
 (b) retention of a right of first refusal to reacquire such property at
 fair market value (as set forth in the Uniform Relocation Assistance and
 Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646, 84 Stat. 1905))
 upon a decision by Leroy W. Shebal to sell such property or his death:
 Provided, That, such right shall be extinguished if not exercised by the
 Secretary by payment of such value within one year from the date on which
 Leroy W. Shebal notifies the Secretary in writing of his decision to sell the
 property or the date on which Leroy W. Shebal dies, whichever occurs first.
 SEC. 2. Section 1110(b) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation
 Act (Public Law 96-487, 94 Stat. 2371), shall not apply to the property
 described in section 1 of this Act.
 SEC. 3. The provisions of this Act shall be effective only if Leroy
 W. Shebal notifies the Secretary, in writing, within one year from the date
 of enactment of his intention to purchase the property.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.