 
--S.639--
S.639
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the Spark M. Matsunaga Hydrogen Research, Development, and Demon-
stration Program Act of 1990
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be referred to as the `Spark M. Matsunaga Hydrogen Research,
 Development, and Demonstration Act of 1990'.
SEC. 102. FINDING, PURPOSES, AND DEFINITION.
 (a) FINDING- Congress finds that it is in the national interest to accelerate
 efforts to develop a domestic capability to economically produce hydrogen
 in quantities that will make a significant contribution toward reducing
 the Nation's dependence on conventional fuels.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to direct the Secretary to prepare a comprehensive 5-year comprehensive
 program management plan that will identify and resolve critical technical
 issues necessary for the realization of a domestic capability to produce,
 distribute, and use hydrogen economically within the shortest time
 practicable;
 (2) to direct the Secretary to develop a technology assessment and information
 transfer program among the Federal agencies and aerospace, transportation,
 energy, and other entities; and
 (3) to develop renewable energy resources as a primary source of energy
 for the production of hydrogen.
 (c) DEFINITION- As used in this Act, the term:
 (1) `critical technology' (or `critical technical issue') means a technology
 (or issue) that, in the opinion of the Secretary, requires understanding
 and development in order to take the next needed step in the development
 of hydrogen as an economic fuel or storage medium; and
 (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of Energy.
SEC. 103. COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
 (a) PLAN- The Secretary shall prepare a comprehensive 5-year program
 management plan for research and development activities, which shall be
 conducted over a period of no less than 5 years and shall be consistent
 with the provisions of sections 104 and 105. In the preparation of such
 plan, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the National
 Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of Transportation,
 the Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel established under section 108,
 and the heads of such other Federal agencies and such public and private
 organizations as he deems appropriate. The plan shall be structured to
 identify and address areas of research critical to the realization of a
 domestic hydrogen production capability within the shortest time practicable.
 (b) CONTENTS OF PLAN- Within 180 days after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall transmit the comprehensive program management
 plan to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 Senate. Subsequent plans shall be incorporated in the management plan under
 this section. The plan shall include--
 (1) a prioritization of research areas critical to the economic use of
 hydrogen as a fuel and energy storage medium;
 (2) the program elements, management structure, and activities, including
 program responsibilities of individual agencies and individual institutional
 elements;
 (3) the program strategies including technical milestones to be achieved
 toward specific goals during each fiscal year for all major activities
 and projects;
 (4) the estimated costs of individual program items, including current as
 well as proposed funding levels for each of the 5 years of the plan for
 each of the participating agencies;
 (5) a description of the methodology of coordination and technology
 transfer; and
 (6) the proposed participation by industry and academia in the planning
 and implementation of the program.
 (c) DEMONSTRATION PLAN- The Secretary shall, in consultation with the
 Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics
 and Space Administration, and the Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel
 established under section 108, also prepare a comprehensive large-scale
 hydrogen demonstration plan with respect to demonstrations carried out
 pursuant to section 105. Subsequent plans shall be incorporated in the
 management plan under this section. Such plan shall include--
 (1) a description of the necessary research and development activities that
 must be completed before initiation of a large-scale hydrogen production
 and storage demonstration program;
 (2) an assessment of the appropriateness of a large-scale demonstration
 immediately upon completion of the necessary research and development
 activities;
 (3) an implementation schedule with associated budget and program management
 resource requirements; and
 (4) a description of the role of the private sector in carrying out the
 demonstration program.
SEC. 104. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) PROGRAM- The Secretary shall conduct a research and development
 program, consistent with the comprehensive 5-year program management plan
 under section 103, to ensure the development of a domestic hydrogen fuel
 production capability within the shortest time practicable consistent with
 market conditions.
 (b) RESEARCH- (1) Particular attention shall be given to developing an
 understanding and resolution of all critical technical issues preventing
 the introduction of hydrogen into the marketplace.
 (2) The Secretary shall initiate research or accelerate existing research
 in critical technical issues that will contribute to the development of
 more economic hydrogen production and use, including, but not limited
 to, critical technical issues with respect to production, liquefaction,
 transmission, distribution, storage, and use (including use of hydrogen in
 surface transportation).
 (c) RENEWABLE ENERGY PRIORITY- The Secretary shall give priority to those
 production techniques that use renewable energy resources as their primary
 source of energy for hydrogen production.
 (d) NEW TECHNOLOGIES- The Secretary shall, for the purpose of performing his
 responsibilities pursuant to this Act, solicit proposals for and evaluate
 any reasonable new or improved technology that could lead or contribute to
 the development of economic hydrogen production storage and utilization.
 (e) INFORMATION- The Secretary shall conduct evaluations, arrange for tests
 and demonstrations, and disseminate to developers information, data, and
 materials necessary to support efforts undertaken pursuant to this section,
 consistent with section 106.
SEC. 105. DEMONSTRATIONS.
 (a) REQUIREMENT- The Secretary shall conduct demonstrations of critical
 technologies, preferably in self-contained locations, so that technical
 and non-technical parameters can be evaluated to best determine commercial
 applicability of the technology.
 (b) SMALL-SCALE DEMONSTRATIONS- Concurrently with activities conducted
 pursuant to section 104, the Secretary shall conduct small-scale
 demonstrations of hydrogen technology at self-contained sites.
SEC. 106. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM.
 (a) PROGRAM- The Secretary shall conduct a program designed to accelerate
 wider application of hydrogen production, storage, utilization, and other
 technologies available in near term as a result of aerospace experience
 as well as other research progress by transferring critical technologies
 to the private sector. The Secretary shall direct the program with the
 advice and assistance of the Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel established
 under section 108. The objective in seeking this advice is to increase
 participation of private industry in the demonstration of near commercial
 applications through cooperative research and development arrangements,
 joint ventures or other appropriate arrangements involving the private sector.
 (b) INFORMATION- The Secretary, in carrying out the program authorized by
 subsection (a), shall--
 (1) undertake an inventory and assessment of hydrogen technologies and their
 commercial capability to economically produce, store, or utilize hydrogen
 in aerospace, transportation, electric utilities, petrochemical, chemical,
 merchant hydrogen, and other industrial sectors; and
 (2) develop a National Aeronautics Space Administration, Department of Energy,
 and industry information exchange program to improve technology transfer for--
 (A) application of aerospace experience by industry;
 (B) application of research progress by industry and aerospace;
 (C) application of commercial capability of industry by aerospace; and
 (D) expression of industrial needs to research organizations.
The information exchange program may consist of workshops, publications,
conferences, and a data base for the use by the public and private sectors.
SEC. 107. COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION.
 (a) SECRETARY'S RESPONSIBILITY- The Secretary shall have overall management
 responsibility for carrying out programs under this Act. In carrying out
 such programs, the Secretary, consistent with such overall management
 responsibility--
 (1) shall use the expertise of the National Aeronautics and Space
 Administration and the Department of Transportation; and
 (2) may use the expertise of any other Federal agency in accordance with
 subsection (b) in carrying out any activities under this title, to the
 extent that the Secretary determines that any such agency has capabilities
 which would allow such agency to contribute to the purpose of this Act.
 (b) ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may, in accordance with subsection (a),
 obtain the assistance of any department, agency, or instrumentality of
 the Executive branch of the Federal Government upon written request, on a
 reimbursable basis or otherwise and with the consent of such department,
 agency, or instrumentality. Each such request shall identify the assistance
 the Secretary deems necessary to carry out any duty under this Act.
 (c) CONSULTATION- The Secretary shall consult with the Administrator
 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Administrator
 of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Transportation,
 and the Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel established under section 108 in
 carrying out his authorities pursuant to this Act.
SEC. 108. TECHNICAL PANEL.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Hydrogen Technical
 Advisory Panel (the `technical panel'), to advise the Secretary on the
 programs under this Act.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The technical panel shall be appointed by the Secretary
 and shall be comprised of such representatives from domestic industry,
 universities, professional societies, Government laboratories, financial,
 environmental, and other organizations as the Secretary deems appropriate
 based on his assessment of the technical and other qualifications of such
 representatives. Appointments to the technical panel shall be made within
 90 days after the enactment of this Act. The technical panel shall have a
 chairman, who shall be elected by the members from among their number.
 (c) COOPERATION- The heads of the departments, agencies, and instrumentalities
 of the Executive branch of the Federal Government shall cooperate with the
 technical panel in carrying out the requirements of this section and shall
 furnish to the technical panel such information as the technical panel
 deems necessary to carry out this section.
 (d) REVIEW- The technical panel shall review and make any necessary
 recommendations to the Secretary on the following items--
 (1) the implementation and conduct of programs under this Act;
 (2) the economic, technological, and environmental consequences of the
 deployment of hydrogen production and use systems; and
 (3) comments on and recommendations for improvements in the comprehensive
 5-year program management plan required under section 103.
 (e) SUPPORT- The Secretary shall provide such staff, funds and other support
 as may be necessary to enable the technical panel to carry out the functions
 described in this section.
SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of
 this Act (in addition to any amounts made available for such purposes to
 other Acts)--
 (1) $3,000,000 for the fiscal year 1992;
 (2) $7,000,000 for the fiscal year 1993; and
 (3) $10,000,000 for the fiscal year 1994.
Passed the Senate October 16 (legislative day, October 2), 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.