 
--S.666--
S.666
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To enroll twenty individuals under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I
SEC. 101. ENROLL NATIVES UNDER ALASKA NATIVE CLAIMS SETTLEMENT ACT.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior
 is authorized and directed to enroll the following named individuals as
 Natives under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (Public Law 92-203):
 Marilyn Jean (Warren) Sanchez, Theresa A. (Warren) Forbes, Linda (Graham)
 Raymond, Carol (Graham) Kistler, Debra (Sellers) Page, Glenn Sellers,
 David P. Schmalzried, Odman H. Schmalzried, Carol Guzialek, Corbin Kooly,
 Charmaine I. (Warren) Forbes, John A. Warren, Jr., Phillip Graham, Sharon
 (Graham) Skinner, Wanda (Sellers) Clancy, Georgia A. (Schmalzried) Flood,
 Rhonda S. (Schmalzried) Koski, Paula (Guzialek) Smith, Pamela Kooly, and
 Darrell Kooly. Each individual is entitled to receive one hundred shares of
 stock in Cook Inlet Region, Inc., and such other benefits as the Board of
 Directors of that corporation may approve. No individual enrolled pursuant to
 this Act shall be entitled to share in any dividends or Alaska Native Claims
 Settlement Act distributions made by the United States or Cook Inlet Region,
 Inc., prior to the individual's enrollment. Enrollment of these individuals
 shall not alter the entitlement to or distribution of land to Cook Inlet
 Region, Inc., under the terms of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
TITLE II
SEC. 201. TITLE AND PURPOSE.
 (a) TITLE- This title may be cited as the `Admiralty Island National Monument
 Land Management Act of 1990'.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this title is to improve Federal management of
 lands on Admiralty Island, Alaska, as provided herein.
SEC. 202. FINDINGS.
 The Congress hereby finds that--
 (1) Admiralty Island National Monument, Alaska, is an area of unparalleled
 natural beauty containing multiple values including but not limited to, fish
 and wildlife, forestry, recreational, subsistence, educational, wilderness,
 historical, cultural, and scenic values of enduring benefit to the Nation
 and the Native peoples residing therein; and
 (2) land management and Federal administration of Admiralty Island National
 Monument may be enhanced by Federal land acquisitions, through land exchanges
 or otherwise, and by cooperative agreements between the Federal Government
 and the indigenous residents of the island, the people of the city of Angoon
 and the Native Village Corporation, Kootznoowoo, Incorporated.
SEC. 203. LAND ACQUISITION AND EXCHANGE.
 (a) Section 506(a) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act
 (Public Law 96-487, as amended) is hereby amended by adding at the end
 thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(9)(A) The Secretary is authorized and directed to enter into such
 cooperative agreements and agreements for land acquisitions, through exchange
 or otherwise, with Kootznoowoo as are deemed necessary by the Secretary to
 carry out the purposes specified in sections 201 and 503 of this Act and
 to improve the management of Federal lands on Admiralty Island.
 `(B) The Secretary shall make every effort to complete agreements within
 eighteen months of the date of enactment of this paragraph.
 `(C) The Secretary shall report to Congress before the end of such
 eighteen-month period on the status and results of negotiations with
 Kootznoowoo. The report shall include, but not be limited to, any Kootznoowoo
 properties proposed to be acquired by the United States, any Federal land or
 other compensation to be offered in exchange, and the text of any proposed
 or executed agreements.
 `(D) Any lands on Admiralty Island acquired by the United States pursuant
 to this paragraph shall be added to and incorporated within the Admiralty
 Island National Monument.
 `(E) The inability of the Secretary and Kootznoowoo to reach agreement shall
 not preclude subsequent negotiations at any time for the purposes of land
 exchanges or other matters.
 `(F) Enactment of this paragraph shall not create any right or cause of action
 by Kootznoowoo, Incorporated, or any other party against the United States.'.
SEC. 204. LAND SELECTION CONSOLIDATION.
 (a) Section 506(a)(5) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation
 Act (Public Law 96-487, as amended) is hereby amended by adding at the end
 thereof the following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) In order to consolidate Federal land ownership and improve management
 of all land and timber resources in the area, the lands between such sale
 area and lands lying to the east of such sale area which have been or may be
 conveyed to Kootznoowoo pursuant to this paragraph shall be made available by
 the Secretary for an exchange between the Federal Government and Kootznoowoo,
 Incorporated, pursuant to the terms of section 1302(h) of this Act. If such
 sale is voluntarily terminated, or is canceled or forfeited in accordance
 with applicable law and regulations, then the lands within the sale area
 shall also be made available for exchange. The availability of the lands
 within the sale area for exchange shall continue for one year following
 the date the sale is completed and closed, or for one year following its
 termination, cancellation, or forfeiture, whichever is later. Nothing in
 this section shall affect valid land selections which the State of Alaska
 has filed with the Federal Government pursuant to Public Law 85-508, nor
 shall this section cause these lands to be removed from entry pursuant to
 the Mining Law of 1872.
 `(D) Subject to lode mining claims, known as KAEL 1-216 inclusive, and valid
 existing rights, the subsurface estate in the lands conveyed to Kootznoowoo,
 Incorporated, pursuant to subparagraph (C) shall be granted to Sealaska,
 Incorporated.
Nothing in subparagraphs (C) or (D) shall create a right or cause of action
by Kootznoowoo, Incorporated, or any other party against the United States.'.
SEC. 205. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 (a) Section 703(a)(1) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation
 Act is amended by deleting the words `Admiralty Island National Monument
 Wilderness' and inserting in lieu thereof `Kootznoowoo Wilderness'.
 (b)(1) All rights, title, and interests to that portion of the approximately
 seventeen and thirty-four one-hundredths acres comprising the Angoon
 Administrative Site which, pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
 the Secretary dedicates for uses related to the administration of the
 Tongass National Forest, are hereby confirmed in the United States, said
 parcel being a valid existing Federal administrative site as referenced in
 section 506(a)(3)(A) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act
 (Public Law 96-487, as amended). Said administrative site is located on
 Admiralty Island in township 50 south, range 68 east, section 31, Copper
 River Base and Meridian and township 50 south, range 67 east, section 36,
 Copper River Base and Meridian.
 (2) Within one year of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall adjust, and resurvey as necessary, the boundaries of
 the Angoon Administrative Site to include only that portion of the site
 described as follows:
 (A) Those lands which lie within the following described boundaries,
 comprising four and sixty-eight one-hundredths acres more or less:
 Beginning at corner 1, also corner 9 of United States survey numbered 3756;
 Thence north 45 degrees 30 minutes west, 540.79 feet to corner 2;
 Thence north 45 degrees 00 minutes east, 376.60 feet to corner 3;
 Thence south 45 degrees 30 minutes east, 540.79 feet to corner 4;
 Thence south 45 degrees 00 minutes west, 376.60 feet to corner 1, also
 corner 9 of United States survey numbered 3756, the point of beginning.
 (B) Those lands which lie within that area adjoining the northeastern
 boundary of the four and sixty-eight one-hundredths acre tract and the mean
 high tide line of Kootznoowoo Inlet, subject to a perpetual public easement
 for the existing Angoon-Killisnoo Road.
 (C) An easement for road and utility access to the four and sixty-eight
 one-hundredths acre tract from the western or southern boundary of
 the seventeen and thirty-four one-hundredths acre site. To the maximum
 extent feasible, the Secretary shall locate said easement to connect and
 follow the existing right-of-way for Relay Road, which lies between lots
 1 and 6 of the Samuel G. Johnson subdivision. Said easement shall be at
 a precise location and of dimensions which the Secretary determines are
 reasonably necessary for present and projected Federal uses of the site
 related to administration of the Tongass National Forest. Said easement
 shall be subject to any valid existing rights except those of Kootznoowoo,
 Incorporated: Provided, That the easement shall not be located on any lands
 conveyed by Kootznoowoo, Incorporated, to a third party prior to June 1,
 1988, without the express consent of such party: Provided further, That
 the Secretary shall exclude from the lands so retained those lands which
 were occupied on June 1, 1988, by structures and improvements that were
 not constructed by or for the United States including easements related
 thereto, or which were constructed by or for the United States but which the
 Secretary determines are not reasonably necessary for present or projected
 Federal uses related to the administration of the Tongass National Forest:
 Provided further, That the Secretary shall not exclude from the four and
 sixty-eight one-hundredths acre tract any lands occupied by existing power
 or utility lines or poles, and the lands so occupied shall be subject to
 an easement to allow for their continued use, maintenance, and repair.
 (3) Title to all lands within the seventeen and thirty-four one-hundredths
 acre administrative site which are not included by the Secretary in the
 adjusted area provided by paragraph (b)(2) shall be conveyed by the Secretary
 of Agriculture by quitclaim deed to Kootznoowoo, Incorporated.
 (4) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) are subject to the
 condition precedent that Kootznoowoo, Incorporated, executes an appropriate
 written agreement acceptable to the United States Attorney for the District
 of Alaska to dismiss, with prejudice, the pending litigation entitled
 Kootznoowoo, Incorporated, versus United States Department of Agriculture,
 Forest Service, Civil Numbered A84-575, in the United States District
 Court for the District of Alaska, and agrees therein that Kootznoowoo,
 Incorporated, and the United States shall each bear their respective costs
 of said litigation, including attorneys' fees.
TITLE III
SEC. 301. ALASKA NATIVE CLAIM SETTLEMENT ACT.
 Subsection (d) of section 37 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act is
 amended by--
 (1) inserting the words `and such resolution is not validly rescinded pursuant
 to paragraph (2)(B)(ii)' before the period at the end of paragraph (1)(A);
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (2)(B) as paragraph (2)(B)(i); and
 (3) by adding the following new clauses to paragraph (2)(B):
 `(ii) In lieu of approving the amendment to the articles of incorporation
 described in clause (i) and submitting such amendment to a vote of the
 shareholders, at any time prior to January 1, 1991, the board of directors of
 a Native Corporation that has approved a resolution described in paragraph
 (1)(A) may approve a new resolution rescinding that prior resolution. Upon
 approval of the new resolution rescinding a resolution described in paragraph
 (1)(A), the latter resolution shall be void and alienability restrictions on
 the Settlement Common Stock of such corporation shall continue subsequent
 to December 18, 1991, until such time as the alienability restrictions are
 terminated pursuant to the procedure described in subsection (b).
 `(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a civil action that
 challenges the constitutionality of any provision in clause (ii) shall be
 barred unless it is filed within one year after the date of the vote of
 the board of directors approving a resolution to rescind a prior opt-in
 election under paragraph (1)(A). Any such civil action shall be filed in
 accordance with section 16(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
 Amendments of 1987 (101 Stat. 1813-1814).'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.