 
--S.694--
S.694
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To extend title I of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION.
 Title I of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6211 et
 seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 171, by striking out `June 30, 1989' each place it appears
 and inserting in lieu thereof `April 1, 1990'; and
 (2) in section 104(b)(1), by striking out `June 30, 1989' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `April 1, 1990'.
SEC. 2. STUDY AND REPORT ON OIL LEASING AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS TO FILL SPR
TO ONE BILLION BARRELS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Energy shall carry out a study on potential
 financial arrangements (including long-term leasing of crude oil and storage
 facilities) that could be used to provide additional, alternative means
 of financing the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to one billion
 barrels. In carrying out such study, the Secretary shall--
 (1) assume that the legislation that extends title I of the Energy Policy and
 Conservation Act beyond April 1, 1990, will require the Secretary to amend,
 by July 1, 1990, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan to provide plans for
 completion of storage of one billion barrels of petroleum products in the
 Reserve at an average fill-rate of at least seventy-five thousand barrels
 per day;
 (2) consider a broad array of such arrangements;
 (3) consult with persons in the private sector who might be interested in
 leasing crude oil or storage facilities;
 (4) initiate, in cooperation with the Department of State, to the extent
 consistent with the interests of the United States, discussions with
 representatives of foreign governments and other entities as to the types
 of financial arrangements (including crude oil leasing arrangements) that
 would interest them; and
 (5) produce preliminary written solicitations for proposed alternative
 financial arrangements (including long-term leasing of crude oil and storage
 facilities) to assist in filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to one
 billion barrels.
 (b) REPORTS- (1) The Secretary shall, no later than October 15, 1989,
 transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
 and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives
 an interim report containing--
 (A) an enumeration of the specific resources (both personnel and funding)
 committed to the study described in subsection (a);
 (B) a description of the progress made toward completing the study; and
 (C) any preliminary findings and conclusions made by such date.
 (2) The Secretary shall, no later than February 1, 1990, transmit to
 such committees a copy of the solicitations described in paragraph (5) of
 subsection (a) and a final report containing the findings and conclusions
 of the study carried out under this section, together with a draft of the
 legislative changes that would be necessary to authorize the most significant
 alternative financial arrangements studied by the Secretary (including
 long-term leasing of crude oil and storage facilities) and recommendations
 of the Secretary with respect to the need for and desirability of such
 financial arrangements (including long-term leasing of crude oil and
 storage facilities).
 (c) ENFORCEMENT- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no portion of
 the United States share of crude oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1
 (Elk Hills) may be sold or otherwise disposed of pursuant to any contract
 or other agreement entered into or extended on or after February 1, 1990,
 other than to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (either directly or by exchange)
 until the Secretary of Energy has transmitted the solicitations and the final
 report described in subsection (b)(2) (including the legislative changes and
 recommendations described in such subsection) to the committees described
 in subsection (b)(1), except for the purposes provided in section 160(d)(2)
 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.