 
--S.804--
S.804
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To conserve North American wetland ecosystems and waterfowl and the other
migratory birds and fish and wildlife that depend upon such habitats.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `North American Wetlands Conservation Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) the maintenance of healthy populations of migratory birds in North
 America is dependent on the protection, restoration, and management of
 wetland ecosystems and other habitats in Canada, as well as in the United
 States and Mexico;
 (2) wetland ecosystems provide essential and significant habitat for fish,
 shellfish, and other wildlife of commercial, recreational, scientific,
 and aesthetic values;
 (3) almost 35 per centum of all rare, threatened, and endangered species
 of animals are dependent on wetland ecosystems;
 (4) wetland ecosystems provide substantial flood and storm control values
 and can obviate the need for expensive manmade control measures;
 (5) wetland ecosystems make a significant contribution to water availability
 and quality, recharging ground water, filtering surface runoff, and providing
 waste treatment;
 (6) wetland ecosystems provide aquatic areas important for recreational
 and aesthetic purposes;
 (7) more than 50 per centum of the original wetlands in the United States
 alone have been lost;
 (8) wetlands destruction, loss of nesting cover, and degradation of migration
 and wintering habitat have contributed to long-term downward trends in
 populations of migratory bird species such as pintails, American bitterns,
 and black ducks;
 (9) the migratory bird treaty obligations of the United States with Canada,
 Mexico, and other countries require protection of wetlands that are used
 by migratory birds for breeding, wintering, or migration and are needed
 to achieve and to maintain optimun population levels, distributions, and
 patterns of migration;
 (10) the 1988 amendments to the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980
 require the Secretary of the Interior to identify conservation measures to
 assure that nongame migratory bird species do not reach the point at which
 measures of the Endangered Species Act are necessary;
 (11) protection of migratory birds and their habitats requires long-term
 planning and the close cooperation and coordination of management activities
 by Canada, Mexico, and the United States within the framework of the 1916
 and 1936 Migratory Bird Conventions and the Convention on Nature Protection
 and Wildlife Preservation in the Western Hemisphere;
 (12) the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, signed in 1986 by the
 Minister of Environment for Canada and the Secretary of the Interior for
 the United States, provides a framework for maintaining and restoring
 an adequate habitat base to ensure perpetuation of populations of North
 American waterfowl and other migratory bird species;
 (13) a tripartite agreement signed in March 1988, by the Director General
 for Ecological Conservation of Natural Resources of Mexico, the Director of
 the Canadian Wildlife Service, and the Director of the United States Fish
 and Wildlife Service, provides for expanded cooperative efforts in Mexico
 to conserve wetlands for migratory birds that spend the winter there;
 (14) the long-term conservation of migratory birds and habitat for these
 species will require the coordinated action of governments, private
 organizations, landowners, and other citizens; and
 (15) the treaty obligations of the United States under the Convention
 on Wetlands of International Importance especially as waterfowl habitat
 requires promotion of conservation and wise use of wetlands.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purposes of this Act are to encourage partnership among
 public agencies and other interests--
 (1) to protect, enhance, restore, and manage an appropriate distribution
 and diversity of wetland ecosystems and other habitats for migratory birds
 and other fish and wildlife in North America;
 (2) to maintain current or improved distributions of migratory bird
 populations; and
 (3) to sustain an abundance of waterfowl and other migratory birds consistent
 with the goals of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan and the
 international obligations contained in the migratory bird treaties and
 conventions and other agreements with Canada, Mexico, and other countries.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act:
 (1) The term `Agreement' means the Tripartite Agreement signed in March 1988,
 by the Director General for Ecological Conservation of Natural Resources
 of Mexico, the Director of the Canadian Wildlife Service, and the Director
 of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 (2) The term `appropriate Committees' means the Committee on Environment
 and Public Works of the United States Senate and the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries of the United States House of Representatives.
 (3) The term `flyway' means the four administrative units used by the
 United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the States in the management
 of waterfowl populations.
 (4) The term `Migratory Bird Conservation Commission' means that commission
 established by section 2 of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 715a).
 (5) The term `migratory birds' means all wild birds native to North America
 that are in an unconfined state and that are protected under the Migratory
 Bird Treaty Act, including ducks, geese, and swans of the family Anatidae,
 species listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), and species defined as nongame under the Fish
 and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2901-2912).
 (6) The term `Plan' means the North American Waterfowl Management Plan
 signed by the Minister of the Environment for Canada and the Secretary of
 the Interior for the United States in May 1986.
 (7) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (8) The term `State' means the State fish and wildlife agency, which shall
 be construed to mean any department, or any division of any department of
 another name, of a State that is empowered under its laws to exercise the
 functions ordinarily exercised by a State fish and wildlife agency.
 (9) The term `wetlands conservation project' means--
 (A) the obtaining of a real property interest in lands or waters, including
 water rights, if the obtaining of such interest is subject to terms and
 conditions that will ensure that the real property will be administered
 for the long-term conservation of such lands and waters and the migratory
 birds and other fish and wildlife dependent thereon;
 (B) the restoration, management, or enhancement of wetland ecosystems and
 other habitat for migratory birds and other fish and wildlife species if
 such restoration, management, or enhancement is conducted on lands and waters
 that are administered for the long-term conservation of such lands and waters
 and the migratory birds and other fish and wildlife dependent thereon; and
 (C) in the case of projects undertaken in Mexico, includes technical training
 and development of infrastructure neessary for the conservation and management
 of wetlands and studies on the sustainable use of wetland resources.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION COUNCIL.
 (a) COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP- (1) There shall be established a North American
 Wetlands Conservation Council (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
 the `Council') which shall consist of nine members who may not receive
 compensation as members of the Council. Of the Council members--
 (A) one shall be the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
 (B) one shall be the Secretary of the Board of the National Fish and Wildlife
 Foundation appointed pursuant to section 3(2)(B) of the National Fish and
 Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3702);
 (C) four shall be individuals who shall be appointed by the Secretary,
 who shall reside in different flyways and who shall each be a Director of
 the State fish and wildlife agency; and
 (D) three shall be individuals who shall be appointed by the Secretary and
 who shall each represent a different charitable and nonprofit organization
 which is actively participating in carrying out wetlands conservation
 projects under this Act, the Plan, or the Agreement.
 (2) The Secretary shall appoint an alternate member of the Council who shall
 be knowledgeable and experienced in matters relating to fish, wildlife, and
 wetlands conservation and who shall perform the duties of a Council member
 appointed under subsection (a)(1)(C) or subsection (a)(1)(D) of this section--
 (A) until a vacancy referred to in subsection (b)(4) of this section is
 filled; or
 (B) in the event of the anticipated absence of such a member from any
 meeting of the Council.
 (b) APPOINTMENT AND TERMS- (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3),
 the term of office of a member of the Council appointed under subsections
 (a)(1)(C) and (a)(1)(D) of this section is three years.
 (2) Of the Council members first appointed under subsection (a)(1)(C) of
 this section after the date of enactment of this Act, one shall be appointed
 for a term of one year, one shall be appointed for a term of two years,
 and two shall be appointed for a term of three years.
 (3) Of the Council members first appointed under subsection (a)(1)(D) of
 this section after the date of enactment of this Act, one shall be appointed
 for a term of one year, one shall be appointed for a term of two years,
 and one shall be appointed for a term of three years.
 (4) Whenever a vacancy occurs among members of the Council appointed under
 subsection (a)(1)(C) or subsection (a)(1)(D) of this section, the Secretary
 shall appoint an individual in accordance with either such subsection to
 fill that vacancy for the remainder of the applicable term.
 (c) EX OFFICIO COUNCIL MEMBERS- The Secretary is authorized and encouraged to
 include as ex officio nonvoting members of the Commission representatives of--
 (1) the Federal, provincial, territorial, or State government agencies
 of Canada and Mexico, which are participating actively in carrying out
 one or more wetlands conservation projects under this Act, the Plan, or
 the Agreement;
 (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal
 agencies, in addition to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, which
 are participating actively in carrying out one or more wetlands conservation
 projects under this Act, the Plan, or the Agreement; and
 (3) nonprofit charitable organizations and Native American interests,
 including tribal organizations, which are participating actively in one
 or more wetlands conservation projects under this Act, the Plan, or the
 Agreement.
 (d) CHAIRMAN- The Chairman shall be elected by the Council from its members
 for a three-year term, except that the first elected Chairman may serve a
 term of less than three years.
 (e) QUORUM- A majority of the current membership of the Council shall
 constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
 (f) MEETINGS- The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman at least
 once a year. Council meetings shall be open to the public. If a Council
 member appointed under subsection (a)(1)(C) or (a)(1)(D) of this section
 misses three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, the Secretary may
 remove that individual in accordance with subsection (b)(4).
 (g) COORDINATOR- The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife
 Service shall appoint an individual who shall serve at the pleasure of the
 Director and--
 (1) who shall be educated and experienced in the principles of fish,
 wildlife, and wetlands conservation;
 (2) who shall be responsible, with assistance from the United States Fish and
 Wildlife Service, for facilitating consideration of wetlands conservation
 projects by the Council and otherwise assisting the Council in carrying
 out its responsibilities under this Act; and
 (3) who shall be compensated with the funds available under section 8(a)(1)
 for administering this Act.
SEC. 5. APPROVAL OF WETLANDS CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
 (a) CONSIDERATION BY THE COUNCIL- The Council shall recommend wetlands
 conservation projects to the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission based
 on consideration of--
 (1) the extent to which the wetlands conservation project fulfills the
 purposes of this Act, the Plan, or the Agreement;
 (2) the availability of sufficient non-Federal moneys to carry out
 any wetlands conservation project and to match Federal contributions in
 accordance with the requirements of section 8(b) of this Act;
 (3) the extent to which any wetlands conservation project represents a
 partnership among public agencies and private entities;
 (4) the consistency of any wetlands conservation project in the United
 States with the National Wetlands Priority Conservation Plan developed
 under section 301 of the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3921);
 (5) the extent to which any wetlands conservation project would aid the
 conservation of migratory nongame birds, other fish and wildlife and species
 that are listed, or are candidates to be listed, as threatened and endangered
 under the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
 (6) the substantiality of the character and design of the wetlands
 conservation project; and
 (7) the recommendations of any partnerships among public agencies and private
 entities in Canada, Mexico, or the United States which are participating
 actively in carrying out one or more wetlands conservation projects under
 this Act, the Plan, or the Agreement.
 (b) RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION COMMISSION- The Council
 shall submit to the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission by January 1
 of each year, a description, including estimated costs, of the wetlands
 conservation projects which the Council has considered under subsection
 (a) of this section and which it recommends, in order of priority, that the
 Migratory Bird Conservation Commission approve for Federal funding under this
 Act and section 3(b) of the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)),
 as amended by this Act.
 (c) COUNCIL PROCEDURES- The Council shall establish practices and procedures
 for the carrying out of its functions under subsections (a) and (b) of this
 section. The procedures shall include requirements that--
 (1) a quorum of the Council must be present before any business may be
 transacted; and
 (2) no recommendations referred to in subsection (b) of this section may
 be adopted by the Council except by the vote of two-thirds of all members
 present and voting.
 (d) COUNCIL REPRESENTATION ON MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION COMMISSION-
 The Chairman of the Council shall select one Council member of the United
 States citizenship to serve with the Chairman as ex officio members of the
 Migratory Bird Conservation Commission for the purposes of considering and
 voting upon wetlands conservation projects recommended by the Council.
 (e) APPROVAL OF COUNCIL RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
 COMMISSION- The Migratory Bird Convention Commission, along with the two
 members of the Council referred to in subsection (d) of this section, shall
 approve, reject or reorder the priority of any wetlands conservation projects
 recommended by the Council based on, to the greatest extent practicable,
 the criteria of subsection (a) of this section. If the Migratory Bird
 Conservation Commission approves any wetlands conservation project,
 Federal funding shall be made available under this Act and section 3(b)
 of the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by this
 Act. If the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission rejects or reorders the
 priority of any wetlands conservation project recommended by the Council,
 the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission shall provide the Council and
 the appropriate Committees with a written statement explaining its rationale
 for the rejection or the priority modification.
 (f) NOTIFICATION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES- The Migratory Bird Conservation
 Commission shall submit annually to the appropriate Committees a report
 including a list and description of the wetlands conservation projects
 approved by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission for Federal funding
 under subsection (d) of this section in order of priority; the amounts and
 sources of Federal and non-Federal funding for such projects; a justification
 for the approval of such projects and the order of priority for funding
 such projects; a list and description of the wetlands conservation projects
 which the Council recommended, in order of priority that the Migratory Bird
 Conservation Commission approve for Federal funding; and a justification
 for any rejection or re-ordering of the priority of wetlands conservation
 projects recommended by the Council that was based on factors other than
 the criteria of section 5(a) of this Act.
SEC. 6. CONDITIONS RELATING TO WETLANDS CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
 (a) PROJECTS IN THE UNITED STATES- (1) Subject to the allocation requirements
 of section 8(a)(2) and the limitations on Federal contributions under section
 8(b) of this Act, the Secretary shall assist in carrying out wetlands
 conservation projects in the United States, which have been approved by
 the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission, with the Federal funds made
 available under this Act and section 3(b) of the Act of September 2, 1937
 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by this Act.
 (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), any lands or waters or interests
 therein acquired in whole or in part by the Secretary with the Federal funds
 made available under this Act and section 3(b) of the Act of September 2,
 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by this Act, to carry out wetlands
 conservation projects shall be included in the National Wildlife Refuge
 System.
 (3) In lieu of including in the National Wildlife Refuge System any lands
 or waters or interests therein acquired under this Act, the Secretary may,
 with the concurrence of the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission, grant
 or otherwise provide the Federal funds made available under this Act and
 section 3(b) of the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended
 by this Act or convey any real property interest acquired in whole or in
 part with such funds without cost to a State or to another public agency
 or other entity upon a finding by the Secretary that the real property
 interests should not be included in the National Wildlife Refuge System:
 Provided, That any grant recipient shall have been so identified in the
 project description accompanying the recommendation from the Council and
 approved by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission. The Secretary shall
 not convey any such interest to a State, another public agency or other
 entity unless the Secretary determines that such State, agency or other
 entity is committed to undertake the management of the property being
 transferred in accordance with the objectives of this Act, and the deed
 or other instrument of transfer contains provisions for the reversion of
 title to the property to the United States if such State, agency or other
 entity fails to manage the property in accordance with the objectives of
 this Act. Any real property interest conveyed pursuant to this paragraph
 shall be subject to such terms and conditions that will ensure that the
 interest will be administered for the long-term conservation and management
 of the wetland ecosystem and the fish and wildlife dependent thereon.
 (b) PROJECTS IN CANADA OR MEXICO- Subject to the allocation requirements of
 section 8(a)(1) and the limitations on Federal contributions under section
 8(b) of this Act, the Secretary shall grant or otherwise provide the Federal
 funds made available under this Act and section 3(b) of the Act of September
 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by this Act, to public agencies and
 other entities for the purpose of assisting such entities and individuals in
 carrying out wetlands conservation projects in Canada or Mexico that have
 been approved by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission: Provided,
 That the grant recipient shall have been so identified in the project
 description accompanying the recommendation from the Council and approved
 by Migratory Bird Conservation Commission. The Secretary may only grant or
 otherwise provide Federal funds if the grant is subject to the terms and
 conditions that will ensure that any real property interest acquired in
 whole or in part, or enhanced, managed, or restored with such Federal funds
 will be administered for the long-term conservation and management of such
 wetland ecosystem and the fish and wildlife dependent thereon. Real property
 and interests in real property acquired pursuant to this subsection shall
 not become part of the National Wildlife Refuge System. Acquisitions of
 real property and interests in real property carried out pursuant to this
 subsection shall not be subject to any provision of Federal law governing
 acquisitions of property for inclusion in the National Wildlife Refuge System.
SEC. 7. AMOUNTS AVAILABLE TO CARRY OUT THIS ACT.
 (a) AID IN WILDLIFE RESTORATION- (1) Section 3 of the Act of September 2,
 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b), is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(a)' before `An amount' in the first sentence thereof; and
 (B) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(b)(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest in interest-bearing
 obligations of the United States such portion of the fund as is not, in his
 judgment, required for meeting a current year's withdrawals. For purposes
 of such investment, the Secretary of the Treasury may--
 `(A) acquire obligations at the issue price and purchase outstanding
 obligations at the market price; and
 `(B) sell obligations held in the fund at the market price.
 `(2) The interest on obligations held in the fund--
 `(A) shall be credited to the fund;
 `(B) constitute the sums available for allocation by the Secretary under
 section 8 of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act; and
 `(C) shall become available for apportionment under this Act at the beginning
 of fiscal year 2006.'.
 (2) Section 4(a) of the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669c(a)), is
 amended by inserting `(excluding interest accruing under section 3(b))'
 after `revenues' in the first sentence thereof.
 (3) The amendments made by this subsection of this Act take effect October
 1, 1989.
 (b) MIGRATORY BIRD FINES, PENALTIES, FORFEITURES- The sums received under
 section 6 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 707) as penalties or
 fines, or from forfeitures of property are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Department of the Interior for purposes of allocation under section
 8 of this Act. This subsection shall not be construed to require the sale
 of instrumentalities.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to the amounts made available
 under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, there are authorized to be
 appropriated to the Department of the Interior for purposes of allocation
 under section 8 of this Act not to exceed $15,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994.
 (d) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Sums made available under this section shall be
 available until expended.
SEC. 8. ALLOCATION OF AMOUNTS AVAILABLE TO CARRY OUT THIS ACT.
 (a) ALLOCATIONS- Of the sums available to the Secretary for any fiscal year
 under this Act and section 3(b) of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration
 Act (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by this Act--
 (1) such percentage of that sum (but at least 50 per centum and not more than
 70 per centum thereof) as is considered appropriate by the Secretary, which
 can be matched with non-Federal moneys in accordance with the requirements
 of subsection (b) of this section, less such amount (but not more than 4
 per centum of such percentage) considered necessary by the Secretary to
 defray the costs of administering this Act during such fiscal year, shall
 be allocated by the Secretary to carry out approved wetlands conservation
 projects in Canada and Mexico in accordance with section 6(b) of this Act; and
 (2) the remainder of such sum after paragraph (1) is applied (but at least
 30 per centum and not more than 50 per centum thereof), which can be matched
 with non-Federal moneys in accordance with the requirements of subsection
 (b) of this section, shall be allocated by the Secretary to carry out
 approved wetlands conservation projects in the United States in accordance
 with section 6(a) of this Act.
 (b) FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION FOR PROJECTS- The Federal moneys allocated under
 subsection (a) of this section for any fiscal year to carry out approved
 wetlands conservation projects shall be used for the payment of not to exceed
 50 per centum of the total United States contribution to the costs of such
 projects, or may be used for payment of 100 per centum of the costs of such
 projects located on Federal lands and waters, including the acquisition
 of inholdings within such lands and waters. The non-Federal share of the
 United States contribution to the costs of such projects may not be derived
 from Federal grant programs.
 (c) PARTIAL PAYMENTS- (1) The Secretary may from time to time make payments to
 carry out approved wetlands conservation projects as such projects progress,
 but such payments, including previous payments, if any, shall not be more
 than the Federal pro rata share of any such project in conformity with
 subsection (b) of this section.
 (2) The Secretary may enter into agreements to make payments on an initial
 portion of an approved wetlands conservation project and to agree to make
 payments on the remaining Federal share of the costs of such project from
 subsequent allocations if and when they become available. The liability of
 the United States under such an agreement is contingent upon the continued
 availability of funds for the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 9. RESTORATION, MANAGEMENT, AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS AND HABITAT FOR
MIGRATORY BIRDS ON FEDERAL LANDS.
 The head of each Federal agency responsible for acquiring, managing, or
 disposing of Federal lands and waters shall, to the extent consistent with
 the mission of such agency and existing statutory authorities, cooperate
 with the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to restore,
 protect, and enhance the wetland ecosystems and other habitats for migratory
 birds, fish, and wildlife within the lands and waters of each such agency.
SEC. 10. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 The Secretary shall report to the appropriate Committees on the implementation
 of this Act. The report shall include--
 (1) a biennial assessment of--
 (A) the estimated number of acres of wetlands and habitat for waterfowl and
 other migratory birds that were restored, protected, or enhanced during such
 two-year period by Federal, State, and local agencies and other entities
 in the United States, Canada, and Mexico;
 (B) trends in the population size and distribution of North American
 migratory birds; and
 (C) the status of efforts to establish agreements with nations in the
 western hemisphere pursuant to section 17 of this Act.
 (2) an annual assessment of the status of wetlands conservation projects,
 including an accounting of expenditures by Federal, State, and other United
 States entities, and expenditures by Canadian and Mexican sources to carry
 out these projects.
SEC. 11. REVISIONS TO THE PLAN.
 The Secretary shall, in 1991 and at five-year intervals thereafter,
 undertake with the appropriate officials in Canada to revise the goals and
 other elements of the Plan in accordance with the information required under
 section 10 and with the other provisions of this Act. The Secretary shall
 invite and encourage the appropriate officials in Mexico to participate in
 any revisions of the Plan.
SEC. 12. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER AUTHORITIES.
 (a) ACQUISITION OF LANDS AND WATERS- Nothing in this Act affects, alters, or
 modifies the Secretary's authorities, responsibilities, obligations, or powers
 to acquire lands or waters or interests therein under any other statute.
 (b) MITIGATION- The Federal funds made available under this Act and section
 3(b) of the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)), as amended by
 this Act, may not be used for fish and wildlife mitigation purposes under
 the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) or the Water
 Resources Development Act of 1986, Public Law 99-662 (1986), 100 Stat. 4235.
SEC. 13. ADDITION OF EPA ADMINISTRATOR TO MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
COMMISSION.
 Section 2 of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 715a) is amended
 by striking `the Secretary of Transportation,' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,'.
SEC. 14. LIMITATION ON ASSESSMENTS AGAINST MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION FUND.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, only those personnel and
 administrative costs directly related to acquisition of real property shall
 be levied against the Migratory Bird Conservation Account.
SEC. 15. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO THE MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT.
 Section 2 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' after `1936,'; and
 (2) by inserting after `1972' the following: `and the convention between the
 United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for the conservation
 of migratory birds and their environments concluded November 19, 1976'.
SEC. 16. OTHER AGREEMENTS.
 (a) The Secretary shall undertake with the appropriate officials of
 nations in the western hemisphere to establish agreements, modeled after
 the Plan or the Agreement, for the protection of migratory birds identified
 in section 13(a)(5) of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980 (16
 U.S.C. 2912(a)). When any such agreements are reached, the Secretary shall
 make recommendations to the appropriate Committees on legislation necessary
 to implement the agreements.
 (b) Section 13(a) of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 2912(a)) is amended by striking `and' after `U.S.C. 1531 to 1543);'
 and striking `necessary.' and inserting `necessary; and' and adding at the
 end the following:
 `(5) identify lands and waters in the United States and other nations in
 the Western Hemisphere whose protection, management, or acquisition will
 foster the conservation of species, subspecies, and populations of migratory
 nongame birds, including those identified in paragraph (3).'.
SEC. 17. TO EXPAND THE BOGUE CHITTO NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
 The Act entitled `An Act to establish the Bogue Chitto National Wildlife
 Refuge' (Public Law 96-288; 94 Stat. 603), as amended, is further amended by--
 (1) striking the period at the end of subsection 3(b) and inserting in lieu
 thereof: `, and within an area of approximately 10,000 acres as depicted
 upon a map entitled `Bogue Chitto NWR Expansion', dated September, 1989
 and on file with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.'; and
 (2) by deleting `$10,000,000' in subsection 5(a) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `such sums as may be necessary'.
SEC. 18. WETLANDS ASSESSMENTS.
 (a) Section 401(a) of the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act of 1986 (16
 U.S.C. 3931(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraph:
 `(5) produce, by April 30, 1990, a report that provides--
 `(A) an assessment of the estimated total number of acres of wetland habitat
 as of the 1780's in the areas that now comprise each State; and
 `(B) an assessment of the estimated total number of acres of wetlands in
 each State as of the 1980's, and the percentage of loss of wetlands in each
 State between the 1780's and the 1980's.'.
 (b) Section 401 of the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act of 1986 (16
 U.S.C. 3931) is amended by deleting `and' at the end of paragraph (3)
 and inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (4).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.