 
--S.818--
S.818
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To commemorate the contributions of Senator Clinton P. Anderson to the
establishment of the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) Senator Clinton P. Anderson of New Mexico was the leader of the
 conservation movement in the 88th Congress, which earned the name the
 `Conservation Congress' for its passage of several landmark conservation
 measures. Senator Anderson was the guiding sponsor of the Wilderness Act
 and shepherded it through the 88th Congress, helping secure its passage
 and enactment on September 3, 1964.
 (2) Senator Anderson was influenced by New Mexico conservationist Aldo
 Leopold, who as a United States Forest Service officer helped establish
 the Nation's first administratively-designated wilderness in 1924, the Gila
 Wilderness in the Gila National Forest in New Mexico.
 (3) Senator Anderson wrote and spoke eloquently about wilderness and his
 words continue to inspire his colleagues and the public about conservation. In
 1963 he wrote:
 `There is a spiritual value to conservation, and wilderness typifies
 this. Wilderness is a demonstration by our people that we can put aside a
 portion of this which we have as a tribute to the Maker and say--this we
 will leave as we found it.
 `Wilderness is an anchor to windward. Knowing it is there, we can also know
 that we are still a rich Nation, tending our resources as we should--not
 a people in despair searching every last nook and cranny of our land for
 a board of lumber, a barrel of oil, a blade of grass, or a tank of water.'.
 (4) On the 25th anniversary of the Wilderness Act, Senator Anderson's living
 legacy is the 474 units in the National Wilderness Preservation System,
 totaling nearly 91 million acres.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF OVERLOOK.
 In recognition of the significant role Senator Anderson played in the
 enactment of the Wilderness Act, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized
 and directed to rename the existing Copperas Vista, located on the Gila
 National Forest in New Mexico, as the `Senator Clinton P. Anderson Wilderness
 Overlook' and to erect appropriate signs, interpretive facilities, monuments,
 or plaques commemorating Senator Anderson's contribution to the National
 Wilderness Preservation System.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.