 
--S.830--
S.830
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend Public Law 99-647, establishing the Blackstone River Valley National
Heritage Corridor Commission, to authorize the Commission to take immediate
action in furtherance of its purposes and to increase the authorization of
appropriations for the Commission.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN.
 Section 8 of the Act entitled `An Act to establish the Blackstone River Valley
 National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode Island', approved
 November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647, 16 U.S.C. 461 note) (hereinafter
 referred to as the `Act'), is amended by inserting the following at the
 end thereof:
 `(c)(1) In furtherance of the purposes of this Act, the Secretary
 is authorized to undertake a limited experimental program of financial
 assistance for the purpose of providing demonstration funds for projects
 within the corridor which exhibit national significance or provide a wide
 spectrum of historic, recreational, or environmental education opportunities
 to the general public in a manner consistent with the purposes of this Act.
 `(2) Applications for funds under this section shall be made to the Secretary
 through the Commission. Each application shall include the recommendation
 of the Commission and its findings as to how the project proposed to be
 funded will further the purposes of this Act.
 `(3) The Secretary is authorized to provide funds for the following purposes--
 `(A) preservation and restoration of properties on or eligible for inclusion
 on the National Register of Historic Places;
 `(B) design and development of interpretive exhibits to encourage public
 understanding of the resources of the Blackstone Valley; and
 `(C) cultural programs and environmental education programs related to
 environmental awareness or historic preservation.
 `(4) Funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed 50
 percent of the total costs of the project to be funded. In making such funds
 available, the Secretary shall give consideration to projects which provide
 a greater leverage of Federal funds. Any payment made shall be subject to
 an agreement that conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted
 for purposes contrary to the purposes of this Act, as determined by the
 Secretary, shall result in a right of the United States of compensation of
 all funds made available to such project or the proportion of the increased
 value of the project attributable to such funds as determined at the time
 of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 10 of the Act is amended by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 10.',
 striking `250,000 for the next five fiscal years' and inserting `350,000
 for each year in which the Commission is in existence' and inserting at
 the end thereof the following:
 `(b) DEMONSTRATION FUNDS- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
 out the provisions of section 8(c), $1,000,000 annually for fiscal years
 1991, 1992, and 1993, to remain available until expended.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.