 
--S.963--
S.963
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize a study on methods to commemorate the nationally significant
highway
known as Route 66, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Route 66 Study Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) United States Route 66, the 2,000 mile highway from Chicago, Illinois,
 to Santa Monica, California, played a significant role in the 20th-century
 history of our Nation, including the westward migration from the Dust Bowl
 and the increase in tourist travel;
 (2) Route 66, an early example of the 1926 National Highway System program,
 transverses the States of Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas,
 New Mexico, Arizona, and California;
 (3) Route 66 has become a symbol of the American people's heritage of travel
 and their legacy of seeking a better life and has been enshrined in American
 popular culture;
 (4) although the remnants of Route 66 are disappearing, many structures,
 features, and artifacts of Route 66 remain; and
 (5) given the interest by organized groups and State governments in the
 preservation of features associated with Route 66, the route's history,
 and its role in American popular culture, a coordinated evaluation of
 preservation options should be undertaken.
SEC. 3. STUDY AND REPORT BY THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.
 (a) STUDY- (1) The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director
 of the National Park Service and in cooperation with the respective States,
 shall coordinate a comprehensive study of United States Route 66. Such study
 shall include an evaluation of the significance of Route 66 in American
 history, options for preservation and use of remaining segments of Route
 66, and options for the preservation and interpretation of significant
 features associated with the highway. The study shall consider private
 sector preservation alternatives.
 (2) The study shall include participation by representatives from each of
 the States traversed by Route 66, the State historic preservation offices,
 representatives of associations interested in the preservation of Route 66
 and its features, and persons knowledgeable in American history, historic
 preservation, and popular culture.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than two years from the date that funds are made
 available for the study referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary shall
 transmit such study to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of
 the United States House of Representatives.
 (c) LIMITATION- Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the
 National Park Service to assume responsibility for the maintenance of United
 States Route 66.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated $200,000 to carry out the provisions
 of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.