 
--S.978--
S.978
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To establish the National Museum of the American Indian within the Smithsonian
Institution, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Museum of the American Indian Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) there is no national museum devoted exclusively to the history and art
 of cultures indigenous to the Americas;
 (2) although the Smithsonian Institution sponsors extensive Native American
 programs, none of its 19 museums, galleries, and major research facilities
 is devoted exclusively to Native American history and art;
 (3) the Heye Museum in New York, New York, one of the largest Native American
 collections in the world, has more than 1,000,000 art objects and artifacts
 and a library of 40,000 volumes relating to the archaeology, ethnology,
 and history of Native American peoples;
 (4) the Heye Museum is housed in facilities with a total area of 90,000
 square feet, but requires a minimum of 400,000 square feet for exhibition,
 storage, and scholarly research;
 (5) the bringing together of the Heye Museum collection and the Native
 American collection of the Smithsonian Institution would--
 (A) create a national institution with unrivaled capability for exhibition
 and research;
 (B) give all Americans the opportunity to learn of the cultural legacy,
 historic grandeur, and contemporary culture of Native Americans;
 (C) provide facilities for scholarly meetings and the performing arts;
 (D) make available curatorial and other learning opportunities for Indians;
 and
 (E) make possible traveling exhibitions to communities throughout the Nation;
 (6) by order of the Surgeon General of the Army, approximately 4,000 Indian
 human remains from battlefields and burial sites were sent to the Army
 Medical Museum and were later transferred to the Smithsonian Institution;
 (7) through archaeological excavations, individual donations, and museum
 donations, the Smithsonian Institution has acquired approximately 14,000
 additional Indian human remains;
 (8) the human remains referred to in paragraphs (6) and (7) have long
 been a matter of concern for many Indian tribes, including Alaska Native
 Villages, and Native Hawaiian communities which are determined to provide
 an appropriate resting place for their ancestors;
 (9) identification of the origins of such human remains is essential to
 addressing that concern; and
 (10) an extraordinary site on the National Mall in the District of Columbia
 (U.S. Government Reservation No. 6) is reserved for the use of the Smithsonian
 Institution and is available for construction of the National Museum of
 the American Indian.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established, within the Smithsonian Institution,
 a living memorial to Native Americans and their traditions which shall be
 known as the `National Museum of the American Indian'.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of the National Museum are to--
 (1) advance the study of Native Americans, including the study of language,
 literature, history, art, anthropology, and life;
 (2) collect, preserve, and exhibit Native American objects of artistic,
 historical, literary, anthropological, and scientific interest;
 (3) provide for Native American research and study programs; and
 (4) provide for the means of carrying out paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) in the
 District of Columbia, the State of New York, and other appropriate locations.
SEC. 4. AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS TO ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT PROVIDING
FOR TRANSFER OF HEYE FOUNDATION ASSETS TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
 The Board of Regents is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Heye
 Foundation, to provide for the transfer to the Smithsonian Institution of
 title to the Heye Foundation assets. The agreement shall--
 (1) require that the use of the assets be consistent with section 3(b); and
 (2) be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State
 of New York.
The United States District Court for the Southern District of New York shall
have original and exclusive jurisdiction over any cause of action arising
under the agreement.
SEC. 5. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The National Museum shall be under a Board of Trustees with
 the duties, powers, and authority specified in this section.
 (b) GENERAL DUTIES AND POWERS- The Board of Trustees shall--
 (1) recommend annual operating budgets for the National Museum to the Board
 of Regents;
 (2) advise and assist the Board of Regents on all matters relating to the
 administration, operation, maintenance, and preservation of the National
 Museum;
 (3) adopt bylaws for the Board of Trustees;
 (4) designate a chairman and other officers from among the members of the
 Board of trustees; and
 (5) report annually to the Board of Regents on the acquisition, disposition,
 and display of Native American objects and artifacts and on other appropriate
 matters.
 (c) SOLE AUTHORITY- Subject to the general policies of the Board of Regents,
 the Board of Trustees shall have the sole authority to--
 (1) lend, exchange, sell, or otherwise dispose of any part of the collections
 of the National Museum, with the proceeds of such transactions to be used
 for additions to the collections of the National Museum or additions to
 the endowment of the National Museum, as the case may be;
 (2) purchase, accept, borrow, or otherwise acquire artifacts and other
 objects for addition to the collections of the Natural Museum; and
 (3) specify criteria for use of the collections of the National Museum for
 appropriate purposes, including research, evaluation, education, and method
 of display.
 (d) AUTHORITY- Subject to the general policies of the Board of Regents,
 the Board of Trustees shall have authority to--
 (1) provide for restoration, preservation, and maintenance of the collections
 of the National Museum;
 (2) solicit funds for the National Museum and determine the purposes to
 which such funds shall be applied; and
 (3) approve expenditures from the endowment of the National Museum for any
 purpose of the Museum.
 (e) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES-
 (1) MEMBERSHIP- The initial membership of the Board of Trustees shall
 consist of--
 (A) the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution;
 (B) an Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution appointed by the
 Board of Regents;
 (C) 8 individuals appointed by the Board of Regents; and
 (D) 15 individuals, each of whom shall be a member of the board of trustees
 of the Heye Museum, appointed by the Board of Regents from a list of nominees
 recommended by the board of trustees of the Heye Museum.
 (2) SPECIAL RULE- At least 7 of the 23 members appointed under subparagraphs
 (C) and (D) of paragraph (1) shall be Indians.
 (3) TERMS- The trustee appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall serve at the
 pleasure of the Board of Regents. The terms of the trustees appointed under
 subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (1) shall be 3 years, beginning on
 the date of the transfer of the Heye Foundation assets to the Smithsonian
 Institution.
 (4) VACANCIES- Any vacancy shall be filled only for the remainder of the
 term involved. Any vacancy appointment under paragraph (1)(D) shall not be
 subject to the source and recommendation requirements of that paragraph,
 but shall be subject to paragraph (2).
 (f) SUBSEQUENT APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES-
 (1) MEMBERSHIP- Upon the expiration of the terms under subsection (e),
 the Board of Trustees shall consist of--
 (A) the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution;
 (B) an Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution appointed by the
 Board of Regents; and
 (C) 23 individuals appointed by the Board of Regents from a list of nominees
 recommended by the Board of Trustees.
 (2) SPECIAL RULE- A least 12 of the 23 members appointed under paragraph
 (1)(C) shall be Indians.
 (3) TERMS- The trustee appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall serve at the
 pleasure of the Board of Regents. Except as otherwise provided in the next
 sentence, the terms of members appointed under paragraph (1)(C) shall be
 3 years. Of the members first appointed under paragraph (1)(C)--
 (A) 7 members, 4 of whom shall be Indians, shall be appointed for a term
 of one year, as designated at the time of appointment; and
 (B) 8 members, 4 of whom shall be Indians, shall be appointed for a term
 of 2 years, as designated at the time of appointment.
 (4) VACANCIES- Any vacancy shall be filled only for the remainder of the
 term involved.
 (g) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Board of Trustees then in
 office shall constitute a quorum.
 (h) EXPENSES- Members of the Board shall be entitled (to the same extent as
 provided in section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, with respect to
 employees serving intermittently in the Government service) to per diem,
 travel, and transportation expenses for each day (including travel time)
 during which they are engaged in the performance of their duties.
SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall appoint--
 (1) a Director who, subject to the policies of the Board of Trustees,
 shall manage the National Museum; and
 (2) other employees of the National Museum, to serve under the Director.
 (b) OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT TO HEYE FOUNDATION EMPLOYEES- Each employee of the
 Heye Museum on the day before the date of the transfer of the Heye Foundation
 assets to the Smithsonian Institution shall be offered employment with the
 Smithsonian Institution--
 (1) under the usual terms of such employment; and
 (2) at a rate of pay not less than the rate applicable to the employee on
 the day before the date of the transfer.
 (c) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE LAWS- The Secretary may--
 (1) appoint the Director, 2 employees under subsection (a)(2), and the
 employees under subsection (b) without regard to the provisions of title 5,
 United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service;
 (2) fix the pay of the Director and such 2 employees without regard to the
 provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title,
 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates; and
 (3) fix the pay of the employees under subsection (b) in accordance with the
 provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title,
 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, subject to
 subsection (b)(2).
SEC. 7. MUSEUM FACILITIES.
 (a) NATIONAL MUSEUM MALL FACILITY- The Board of Regents shall plan, design,
 and construct a facility on the area bounded by Third Street, Maryland
 Avenue, Independence Avenue, Fourth Street, and Jefferson Drive, Southwest,
 in the District of Columbia to house the portion of the National Museum to
 be located in the District of Columbia. The Board of Regents shall pay not
 more than  2/3  of the total cost of planning, designing, and constructing
 the facility from funds appropriated to the Board of Regents. The remainder
 of the costs shall be paid from non-Federal sources.
 (b) NATIONAL MUSEUM HEYE CENTER FACILITY-
 (1) LEASE OF SPACE FROM GSA-
 (A) TERMS- Notwithstanding section 210(j) of the Federal Property and
 Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(j)), the Administrator
 of General Services may lease, at a nominal charge, to the Smithsonian
 Institution space in the Old United States Custom House at One Bowling Green,
 New York, New York, to house the portion of the National Museum to be located
 in the city of New York. The lease shall be subject to such terms as may be
 mutually agreed upon by the Administrator and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
 Institution. The term of the lease shall not be less than 99 years.
 (B) REIMBURSEMENT OF FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND- The Administrator of General
 Services may reimburse the fund established by section 210(f) of the Federal
 Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)) for
 the difference between the amount charged to the Smithsonian Institution
 for leasing space under this paragraph and the commercial charge under
 section 210(j) of such Act which, but for this paragraph, would apply to
 the leasing of such space. There are authorized to be appropriated to the
 Administrator such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subparagraph
 for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1990.
 (2) CONSTRUCTION-
 (A) MUSEUM FACILITY- The Board of Regents shall plan, design, and construct
 a significant facility for the National Museum in the space leased under
 paragraph (1).
 (B) AUDITORIUM AND LOADING DOCK FACILITY- The Administrator of General
 Services shall plan, design, and construct an auditorium and loading dock
 in the Old United States Custom House at One Bowling Green, New York, New
 York, for the shared use of all the occupants of the building, including
 the National Museum.
 (C) SQUARE FOOTAGE- The facilities to be constructed under this paragraph
 shall have, in the aggregate, a total square footage of approximately 82,500
 square feet.
 (3) REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS- After construction of the facility under
 paragraph (2)(A), repairs and alterations of the facility shall be the
 responsibility of the Board of Regents.
 (4) REIMBURSEMENT OF GSA- The Board of Regents shall reimburse the
 Administrator for the Smithsonian Institution's pro rata share of the cost of
 utilities, maintenance, cleaning, and other services incurred with respect
 to the space leased under paragraph (1) and the full cost of any repairs
 or alterations made by the General Services Administration at the request
 of the Smithsonian Institution with respect to the space.
 (5) COST SHARING-
 (A) GENERAL RULES- The Board of Regents shall pay  1/3  of the costs of
 planning, designing, and constructing the facility under paragraph (2)(A)
 from funds appropriated to the Board of Regents. The remainder of the costs
 shall be paid from non-Federal sources.
 (B) RESPONSIBILITIES OF NEW YORK CITY AND STATE- Of the costs which are
 required to be paid from non-Federal sources under this paragraph, the city
 of New York, New York, and the State of New York have each agreed to pay
 $8,000,000 or an amount equal to  1/3  of the costs of planning, designing,
 and constructing the facility under paragraph (2)(A), whichever is less. Such
 payments shall be made to the Board of Regents in accordance with a payment
 schedule to be agreed upon by the city and State and the Board of Regents.
 (C) LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS OF FEDERAL FUNDS- Federal funds may not be
 obligated for actual construction of a facility under paragraph (2)(A) in
 a fiscal year until non-Federal sources have paid to the Board of Regents
 the non-Federal share of such costs which the Board of Regents estimates
 will be incurred in such year.
 (6) DESIGNATION- The facility to be constructed under paragraph (2)(A)
 shall be known and designated as the `George Gustav Heye Center of the
 National Museum of the American Indian'.
 (c) MUSEUM SUPPORT CENTER FACILITY- The Board of Regents shall plan,
 design, and construct a facility for the conservation and storage of the
 collections of the National Museum at the Museum Support Center of the
 Smithsonian Institution.
 (d) MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE- The facilities to be constructed under this
 section shall have, in the aggregate, a total square footage of at least
 400,000 square feet.
 (e) AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH GSA- The Board of Regents and the Administrator
 of General Services may enter into such agreements as may be necessary for
 planning, designing, and constructing facilities under this section (other
 than subsection (b)(2)(B)). Under such agreements, the Board of Regents shall
 transfer to the Administrator, from funds available for planning, designing,
 and constructing such facilities, such amounts as may be necessary for
 expenses of the General Services Administration with respect to planning,
 designing, and constructing such facilities.
 (f) LIMITATION ON OBLIGATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS- Notwithstanding any other
 provision of this Act, funds appropriated for carrying out this section may
 not be obligated for actual construction of any facility under this section
 until the 60th day after the date on which the Board of Regents transmits to
 Congress a written analysis of the total estimated cost of the construction
 and a cost-sharing plan projecting the amount for Federal appropriations
 and for non-Federal contributions for the construction on a fiscal year basis.
SEC. 8. CUSTOM HOUSE OFFICE SPACE AND AUDITORIUM.
 (a) REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS- The Administrator of General Services shall
 make such repairs and alterations as may be necessary in the portion of the
 Old United States Custom House at One Bowling Green, New York, New York,
 which is not leased to the Board of Regents under section 7(b) and which,
 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, has not been altered.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION- There is authorized to be appropriated to
 the Administrator of General Services $25,000,000 from the fund established
 pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative
 Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)) to carry out this section and
 section 7(b)(2)(B).
SEC. 9. AUDUBON TERRACE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Board of Regents shall--
 (1) assure that, on the date on which a qualified successor to the Heye
 Foundation at Audubon Terrace first takes possession of Audubon Terrace,
 an area of at least 2,000 square feet at that facility is accessible to
 the public and physically suitable for exhibition of museum objects and
 for related exhibition activities;
 (2) upon written agreement between the Board and any qualified successor,
 lend objects from the collections of the Smithsonian Institution to the
 successor for exhibition at Audubon Terrace; and
 (3) upon written agreement between the Board and any qualified successor,
 provide training, scholarship, technical, and other assistance (other than
 operating funds) with respect to the area referred to in paragraph (1)
 for the purposes described in that paragraph.
 (b) DETERMINATION OF CHARGES- Any charge by the Board of Regents for
 activities pursuant to agreements under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection
 (a) shall be determined according to the ability of the successor to pay.
 (c) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the terms `qualified successor
 to the Heye Foundation at Audubon Terrace', `qualified successor', and,
 `successor' mean an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the
 Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and exempt from tax under section 501(a)
 of such Code, that, as determined by the Board of Regents--
 (1) is a successor occupant to the Heye Foundation at Audubon Terrace,
 3753 Broadway, New York, New York;
 (2) is qualified to operate the area referred to in paragraph (1) for the
 purposes described in that paragraph; and
 (3) is committed to making a good faith effort to respond to community
 cultural interests in such operation.
SEC. 10. BOARD OF REGENTS FUNCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN AGREEMENTS
AND PROGRAMS.
 (a) PRIORITY TO BE GIVEN TO INDIAN ORGANIZATIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN
 AGREEMENTS- In entering into agreements with museums and other educational
 and cultural organizations to--
 (1) lend Native American artifacts and objects from any collection of the
 Smithsonian Institution;
 (2) sponsor or coordinate traveling exhibitions of artifacts and objects; or
 (3) provide training or technical assistance;
the Board of Regents shall give priority to agreements with Indian
organizations, including Indian tribes, museums, cultural centers, educational
institutions, libraries, and archives. Such agreements may provide that
loans or services to such organizations may be furnished by the Smithsonian
Institution at minimal or no cost.
 (b) INDIAN PROGRAMS- The Board of Regents may establish--
 (1) programs to serve Indian tribes and communities; and
 (2) in cooperation with educational institutions, including tribally
 controlled community colleges (as defined in section 2 of the Tribally
 Controlled Community College Assistance Act of 1978), programs to enhance
 the opportunities for Indians in the areas of museum studies, management,
 and research.
 (c) INDIAN MUSEUM MANAGEMENT FELLOWSHIPS- The Board of Regents shall establish
 an Indian Museum Management Fellowship program to provide stipend support
 to Indians for training in museum development and management.
 (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 $2,000,000 for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 1991, to carry
 out subsections (b) and (c).
SEC. 11. INVENTORY, IDENTIFICATION, AND RETURN OF INDIAN HUMAN REMAINS AND
INDIAN FUNERARY OBJECTS IN THE POSSESSION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
 (a) INVENTORY AND IDENTIFICATION- The Secretary of the Smithsonian
 Institution, in consultation and cooperation with traditional Indian
 religious leaders and government officials of Indian tribes, shall--
 (1) inventory the Indian human remains and Indian funerary objects in the
 possession or control of the Smithsonian Institution; and
 (2) using the best available scientific and historical documentation,
 identify the origins of such remains and objects.
 (b) NOTICE IN CASE OF IDENTIFICATION OF TRIBAL ORIGIN- If the tribal origin
 of any Indian human remains or Indian funerary object is identified by a
 preponderance of the evidence, the Secretary shall so notify any affected
 Indian tribe at the earliest opportunity.
 (c) RETURN OF INDIAN HUMAN REMAINS AND ASSOCIATED INDIAN FUNERARY OBJECTS-
 If any Indian human remains are identified by a preponderance of the
 evidence as those of a particular individual or as those of an individual
 culturally affiliated with a particular Indian tribe, the Secretary, upon
 the request of the descendants of such individual or of the Indian tribe
 shall expeditiously return such remains (together with any associated
 funerary objects) to the descendants or tribe, as the case may be.
 (d) RETURN OF INDIAN FUNERARY OBJECTS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH INDIAN HUMAN
 REMAINS- If any Indian funerary object not associated with Indian human
 remains is identified by a preponderance of the evidence as having been
 removed from a specific burial site of an individual culturally affiliated
 with a particular Indian tribe, the Secretary, upon the request of the
 Indian tribe, shall expeditiously return such object to the tribe.
 (e) INTERPRETATION- Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as--
 (1) limiting the authority of the Smithsonian Institution to return or
 repatriate Indian human remains or Indian funerary objects to Indian tribes
 or individuals; or
 (2) delaying actions on pending repatriation requests, denying or otherwise
 affecting access to the courts, or limiting any procedural or substantive
 rights which may otherwise be secured to Indian tribes or individuals.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for
 succeeding fiscal years to carry out this section.
SEC. 12. SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO REVIEW THE INVENTORY, IDENTIFICATION, AND
RETURN OF INDIAN HUMAN REMAINS AND INDIAN FUNERARY OBJECTS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES- Not later than 120 days after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
 shall appoint a special committee to monitor and review the inventory,
 identification, and return of Indian human remains and Indian funerary
 objects under section 11. In carrying out its duties, the committee shall--
 (1) with respect to the inventory and identification, ensure fair and
 objective consideration and assessment of all relevant evidence;
 (2) upon the request of any affected party or otherwise, review any finding
 relating to the origin or the return of such remains or objects;
 (3) facilitate the resolution of any dispute that may arise between Indian
 tribes with respect to the return of such remains or objects; and
 (4) perform such other related functions as the Secretary may assign.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The committee shall consist of five members, of whom--
 (1) three members shall be appointed from among nominations submitted by
 Indian tribes and organizations; and
 (2) the Secretary shall designate one member as chairman.
The Secretary may not appoint to the committee any individual who is an
officer or employee of the Government (including the Smithsonian Institution)
or any individual who is otherwise affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution.
 (c) ACCESS- The Secretary shall ensure that the members of the committee
 have full and free access to the Indian human remains and Indian funerary
 objects subject to section 11 and to any related evidence, including
 scientific and historical documents.
 (d) PAY AND EXPENSES OF MEMBERS- Members of the committee shall--
 (1) be paid the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay payable
 for grade GS-18 of the General schedule under section 5332 of title 5,
 United States Code; and
 (2) be entitled (to the same extent as provided in section 5703 of such title,
 with respect to employees serving intermittently in the Government service)
 to per diem, travel, and transportation expenses;
for each day (including travel time) during which they are engaged in the
performance of their duties.
 (e) RULES AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT- The Secretary shall prescribe
 regulations and provide administrative support for the committee.
 (f) REPORT AND TERMINATION- At the conclusion of the work of the committee,
 the Secretary shall be so certify by report to the Congress. The committee
 shall cease to exist 120 days after the submission of the report.
 (g) NONAPPLICABILITY OF THE FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT- The Federal
 Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the committee.
 (h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 $250,000 for fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for succeeding
 fiscal years to carry out this section.
SEC. 13. INVENTORY, IDENTIFICATION, AND RETURN OF NATIVE HAWAIIAN HUMAN REMANS
AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN FUNERARY OBJECTS IN THE POSSESSION OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall--
 (1) in conjunction with the inventory and identification under section 11,
 inventory and identify the Native Hawaiian human remains and Native Hawaiian
 funerary objects in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution;
 (2) enter into an agreement with appropriate Native Hawaiian organizations
 with expertise in Native Hawaiian affairs (which may include the Office of
 Hawaiian Affairs and the Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai'i Nei) to provide for
 the return of such human remains nd funerary objects; and
 (3) to the greatest extent practicable, apply, with respect to such human
 remains and funerary objects, the principles and procedures set forth in
 sections 11 and 12 with respect to the Indian human remains and Indian
 funerary objects in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 (1) the term `Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai'i Nei' means the nonprofit, Native
 Hawaiian organization, incorporated under the laws of the State of Hawaii
 by that name on April 17, 1989, the purpose of which is to provide guidance
 and expertise in decisions dealing with Native Hawaiian cultural issues,
 particularly burial issues; and
 (2) the term `Office of Hawaiian Affairs' means the Office of Hawaiian
 Affairs established by the Constitution of the State of Hawaii.
SEC. 14. GRANTS BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR TO ASSIST INDIAN TRIBES
WITH RESPECT TO AGREEMENTS FOR THE RETURN OF INDIAN HUMAN REMAINS AND INDIAN
FUNERARY OBJECTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior may make grants to Indian
 tribes to assist such tribes in reaching and carrying out agreements with--
 (1) the Board of Regents for the return of Indian human remains and Indian
 funerary objects under section 11; and
 (2) other Federal and non-Federal entities for additional returns of Indian
 human remains and Indian funerary objects.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for
 succeeding fiscal years for grants under subsection (a).
SEC. 15. GRANTS BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR TO ASSIST INDIAN ORGANIZATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO RENOVATION AND REPAIR OF MUSEUM FACILITIES AND EXHIBIT
FACILITIES.
 (a) GRANTS- The Secretary of the Interior may make grants to Indian
 organizations, including Indian tribes, museums, cultural centers, educational
 institutions, libraries, and archives, for renovation and repair of museum
 facilities and exhibit facilities to enable such organizations to exhibit
 objects and artifacts on loan from the collections of the Smithsonian
 Institution or from other sources. Such grants may be made only from the
 Tribal Museum Endowment Fund.
 (b) INDIAN ORGANIZATION CONTRIBUTION- In making grants under subsection (a),
 the Secretary may require the organization receiving the grant to contribute,
 in cash or in kind, not more than 50 percent of the cost of the renovation
 or repair involved. Such contribution may be derived from any source other
 than the Tribal Museum Endowment Fund.
 (c) Tribal Museum Endowment Fund-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Treasury a fund, to be known as
 the `Tribal Museum Endowment Fund' (hereinafter in this subsection referred
 to as the `Fund') for the purpose of making grants under subsection (a). The
 Fund shall consist of (A) amounts deposited and credited under paragraph (2),
 (B) obligations obtained under paragraph (3), and (C) amounts appropriated
 pursuant to authorization under paragraph (5).
 (2) DEPOSITS AND CREDITS- The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to
 accept contributions to the Fund from non-Federal sources and shall deposit
 such contributions in the Fund. The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit
 to the Fund the interest on, and the proceeds from sale and redemption of,
 obligations held in the Fund.
 (3) INVESTMENTS- The Secretary of the Treasury may invest any portion of the
 Fund in interest-bearing obligations of the United States. Such obligations
 may be acquired on original issue or in the open market and may be held to
 maturity or sold in the open market. In making investments for the Fund,
 the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult the Secretary of the Interior
 with respect to maturities, purchases, and sales, taking into consideration
 the balance necessary to meet current grant requirements.
 (4) EXPENDITURES AND CAPITAL PRESERVATION- Subject to appropriation, amounts
 derived from interest shall be available for expenditure from the Fund. The
 capital of the Fund shall not be available for expenditure.
 (5) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 to the Fund $2,000,000 for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1992.
 (d) ANNUAL REPORT- Not later than January 31 of each year, the Secretary
 of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury,
 shall submit to the Congress a report of activities under this section,
 including a statement of--
 (1) the financial condition of the Fund as of the end of the preceding fiscal
 year, with an analysis of the Fund transactions during that fiscal year; and
 (2) the projected financial condition of the Fund, with an analysis of
 expected Fund transactions for the six fiscal years after that fiscal year.
SEC. 16. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `Board of Regents' means the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
 Institution;
 (2) the term `Board of Trustees' means the Board of Trustees of the National
 Museum of the American Indian;
 (3) the term `burial site' means a natural or prepared physical location,
 whether below, on, or above the surface of the earth, into which, as a part of
 a death rite or ceremony of a culture, individual human remains are deposited;
 (4) the term `funerary object' means an object that, as part of a death
 rite or ceremony of a culture, is intentionally placed with individual
 human remains, either at the time of burial or later;
 (5) the term `Heye Foundation assets' means the collections, endowment,
 and all other property of the Heye Foundation (other than the interest
 of the Heye Foundation in Audubon Terrace) described in the Memorandum of
 Understanding between the Smithsonian Institution and the Heye Foundation,
 dated May 8, 1989, and the schedules attached to such memorandum;
 (6) the term `Heye Museum' means the Museum of the American Indian, Heye
 Foundation;
 (7) the term `Indian' means a member of an Indian tribe;
 (8) the term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given that term in section 4
 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act;
 (9) the term `National Museum' means the National Museum of the American
 Indian established by section 3;
 (10) the term `Native American' means an individual of a tribe, people,
 or culture that is indigenous to the Americas and such term includes a
 Native Hawaiian; and
 (11) the term `Native Hawaiian' means a member or descendant of the aboriginal
 people who, before 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area
 that now comprises the State of Hawaii.
SEC. 17. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) FUNDING- There is authorized to be appropriated to the Board of Regents
 to carry out this Act (other than as provided in sections 7(b)(1)(B), 8,
 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15(c)(5))--
 (1) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1990; and
 (2) such sums as may be necessary for each succeeding fiscal year.
 (b) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY- Funds appropriated under subsection (a) shall
 remain available without fiscal year limitation for any period prior to
 the availability of the facilities to be constructed under section 7 for
 administrative and planning expenses and for the care and custody of the
 collections of the National Museum.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.