 
--S.974--
S.974
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To designate certain lands in the State of Nevada as wilderness, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989'.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.
 In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136),
 the following lands in the State of Nevada are designated as wilderness,
 and, therefore, as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
 (1) certain lands in the Toiyabe National Forest, which comprise approximately
 38,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Alta Toquima
 Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as the
 `Alta Toquima Wilderness';
 (2) certain lands in the Toiyabe National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 115,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Arc
 Dome Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as the
 `Arc Dome Wilderness';
 (3) certain lands in the Inyo National Forest, which comprise approximately
 10,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Boundary Peak
 Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as the
 `Boundary Peak Wilderness';
 (4) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 36,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Currant
 Mountain Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known
 as the `Currant Mountain Wilderness';
 (5) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 36,900 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `East
 Humboldts Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known
 as the `East Humboldts Wilderness';
 (6) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 48,500 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Jarbidge Wilderness Addition--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which
 are hereby incorporated in, and shall be deemed to be a part of, the
 Jarbidge Wilderness as designated by section 3(a) of the Wilderness Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1132(a));
 (7) certain lands in the Toiyabe National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 28,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Mt. Rose
 Wilderness--Proposed', dated October, 1989, and which shall be known as the
 `Mt. Rose Wilderness';
 (8) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 27,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Quinn
 Canyon Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as
 the `Quinn Canyon Wilderness';
 (9) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 90,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Ruby
 Mountains Wilderness--Proposed', dated September, 1989, and which shall be
 known as the `Ruby Mountains Wilderness';
 (10) certain lands in the Toiyabe National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 43,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Mt. Charleston Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be
 known as the `Mt. Charleston Wilderness';
 (11) certain lands in the Toiyabe National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 98,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Table
 Mountain Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known
 as the `Table Mountain Wilderness';
 (12) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 50,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Grant
 Range Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as
 the `Grant Range Wilderness';
 (13) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 82,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Mt. Moriah Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be
 known as the `Mt. Moriah Wilderness'; and
 (14) certain lands in the Humboldt National Forest, which comprise
 approximately 31,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Santa
 Rosa Wilderness--Proposed', dated May, 1989, and which shall be known as the
 `Santa Rosa-Paradise Peak Wilderness'.
SEC. 3. MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.
 As soon as practicable after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall file a map and a legal description of each wilderness area
 designated by this Act with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of
 the House of Representatives and with the Committee on Energy and Natural
 Resources of the Senate. Each such map and description shall have the
 same force and effect as if included in this Act, except that correction
 of clerical errors in each such map and description may be made by the
 Secretary. Each such map and description shall be on file and available
 for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service,
 Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.
 Subject to valid existing rights, each wilderness area designated by this
 Act shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance
 with the provisions of the Wilderness Act governing areas designated by the
 Wilderness Act as wilderness, except that any reference in such provisions
 to the effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference
 to the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. WILDERNESS REVIEW CONCERNS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Department of Agriculture has completed the second roadless area
 review and evaluation program (RARE II); and
 (2) the Congress has made its own review and examination of National Forest
 System roadless areas in the State of Nevada and of the environmental
 impacts associated with alternative allocations of such areas.
 (b) DETERMINATION- On the basis of such review, the Congress hereby determines
 and directs that--
 (1) without passing on the question of the legal and factual sufficiency of
 the RARE II final environmental statement (dated January 1979) with respect
 to National Forest System lands in the State of Nevada, such statement
 shall not be subject to judicial review with respect to National Forest
 System lands in the State of Nevada;
 (2) with respect to--
 (A) the National Forest System lands in the State of Nevada that were
 reviewed by the Department of Agriculture in the second roadless area review
 and evaluations (RARE II); and
 (B) the lands described in subsection (d),
that review and evaluation or reference shall be deemed for the purposes
of the initial land management plans required for such lands by section
6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974
(16 U.S.C. 1604) to be an adequate consideration of the suitability of such
lands for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System, and the
Department of Agriculture shall not be required to review the wilderness option
prior to the revisions of the plans, but shall review the wilderness option
when the plans are revised, which revisions will ordinarily occur on a 10-year
cycle, or at least every 15 years, unless, prior to such time, the Secretary
of Agriculture finds that conditions in a unit have significantly changed;
 (3) areas in the State of Nevada reviewed in such final environmental
 statement or referenced in subsection (d) and not designated as wilderness in
 section 2 shall be managed for multiple use in accordance with land management
 plans pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources
 Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604): Provided, That such areas need not
 be managed for the purpose of protecting their suitability for wilderness
 designation prior to or during revision of the initial land management plans;
 (4) in the event that revised land management plans in the State of Nevada
 are implemented pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
 Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604) and other applicable law,
 areas not recommended for wilderness designation need not be managed for the
 purpose of protecting their suitability for wilderness designation prior
 to or during revision of such plans, and areas recommended for wilderness
 designation shall be managed for the purposes of protecting their suitability
 for wilderness designation as may be required by the Forest and Rangeland
 Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600-1614) and other
 applicable law; and
 (5) unless expressly authorized by Congress, the Department of Agriculture
 shall not conduct any further statewide roadless area review and evaluation
 of National Forest System lands in the State of Nevada for the purpose
 of determining their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness
 Preservation System.
 (c) REVISIONS- As used in this section, and as provided in section 6 of
 the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16
 U.S.C. 1604), the term `revision' shall not include an `amendment' to a plan.
 (d) APPLICATION OF SECTION- Lands identified by reference to this subsection
 are--
 (1) National Forest System roadless lands in the State of Nevada of less
 than 5,000 acres; and
 (2) Those National Forest System roadless areas, or portions thereof in
 the State of Nevada, identified in the unit plans listed below, which are
 not designated as wilderness in section 2:
--------------------------------------
 National Forest Unit plan
--------------------------------------
 Humboldt        Santa Rosa
 Humboldt        Ruby Mt./E. Humboldt
 Toiyabe         Mt. Charleston
 Toiyabe         Central Nevada
--------------------------------------
SEC. 6. GRAZING IN WILDERNESS AREAS.
 (a) LIVESTOCK GRAZING- Grazing of livestock in wilderness areas designated
 in section 2 that was established prior to the date of enactment of this Act
 shall be administered in accordance with section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)) and section 108 of the Act entitled `An Act to
 designate certain National Forest System lands in the States of Colorado,
 South Dakota, Missouri, South Carolina, and Louisiana for inclusion in
 the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes (16
 U.S.C. 1133 note).
 (b) REVIEW- The Secretary of Agriculture is directed to review all policies,
 practices, and regulations of the Department of Agriculture regarding
 livestock grazing in National Forest Wilderness areas in Nevada in order
 to insure that such policies, practices, and regulations fully conform
 with and implement the intent of Congress regarding grazing in such areas,
 as such intent is expressed in this Act.
 (c) REPORTS- Not later than 1 year after the enactment of this Act, and
 at least every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary of Agriculture shall
 submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 Senate a report detailing the progress made by the Forest Service in carrying
 out the provisions of subsections (a) and (b).
SEC. 7. PROHIBITION OF BUFFER ZONES.
 Congress does not intend that the designation of wilderness areas in the
 State of Nevada implies the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones
 around each wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses
 can be seen or heard from within a wilderness area shall not, of itself,
 preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
SEC. 8. WATER ALLOCATION AUTHORITY.
 (a) Within the wilderness areas designated by this Act, there is hereby
 reserved a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill the purposes of the
 wilderness areas created by this Act.
 (b) The priority date of the water rights reserved in paragraph (a) shall
 be the date of enactment of this Act.
 (c) The Secretary shall file a claim for the quantification of the water
 rights reserved in paragraph (a) in an appropriate stream adjudication and
 shall take all steps necessary to protect such rights in such an adjudication.
 (d) The Federal water rights reserved by this Act shall be in addition to
 any water rights which may have been previously reserved or obtained by
 the United States for other than wilderness purposes.
 (e) The Federal water rights reserved by this Act are specific to
 the wilderness areas located in the State of Nevada designated by this
 Act. Nothing in this Act, nor in any legislative history accompanying this Act
 related to reserved Federal water rights, shall be construed as establishing
 a precedent with regard to any future designations, nor shall it constitute
 an interpretation of any other Act or any designation made pursuant thereto.
SEC. 9. STATE FISH AND WILDLIFE AUTHORITY.
 As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)),
 nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or
 responsibilities of the State of Nevada with respect to wildlife and fish
 in the national forests in Nevada.
SEC. 10. CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.
 Subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as the Secretary may
 prescribe, nothing in this Act or the Wilderness Act shall be construed to
 prevent, where appropriate, the installation and maintenance of hydrologic,
 meteorologic, or climatological collection devices within the wilderness
 areas or additions thereto designated by this Act, where such facilities
 and access thereto are essential to flood warning, flood control and water
 reservoir operation purposes.
SEC. 11. LOW ALTITUDE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES.
 Nothing in this Act shall preclude low level overflights of military
 aircraft, the designation of new units of special airspace, or the use or
 establishment of military flight training routes over the Alta Toquima,
 Arc Dome, Currant Mountain or Table Mountain Wilderness areas.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.