 
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. J. RES. 58
JOINT RESOLUTION
To Designate May 17, 1989, as `High School Reserve Officer Training Corps
Recognition Day'.
SJ 58 ES
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. J. RES. 58
JOINT RESOLUTION
To Designate May 17, 1989, as `High School Reserve Officer Training Corps
Recognition Day'.
Whereas in 1916 the Congress authorized the establishment of high school
divisions of the Reserve Officer Training Corps;
Whereas hundreds of high schools across the United States, and United States
operated high schools abroad, offer High School Reserve Officer Training
Corps programs of the various military services;
Whereas High School Reserve Officer Training Corps programs have provided a
valuable and unique learning opportunity for hundreds of thousands of high
school students for almost four generations;
Whereas the programs of instruction for High School Reserve Officer Training
Corps units concentrate on the development of desirable traits in its
participants, such as good citizenship, leadership, teamwork, individual
initiative, and pride and respect for the United States, its flag, laws,
and Constitution;
Whereas the High School Reserve Officer Training Corps programs, being highly
successful in developing desirable traits in its participants, have made a
valuable contribution to the United States and to the education of the youth
of our Nation;
Whereas it is appropriate to acknowledge and honor the contribution of the
High School Reserve Officer Training Corps, and its cadets and instructors,
both past and present; and
Whereas May 17, 1989, marks the seventy-third anniversary of the authorization
of the High School Reserve Officer Training Corps: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled, That May 17, 1989, is hereby designated
  as `High School Reserve Officer Training Corps Recognition Day'. The
  President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation calling
  upon the people of the United States to observe such day with appropriate
  ceremonies and activities.
Passed the Senate February 28 (legislative day, January 3), 1989.
Attest:
Secretary.
 ning Corps Recognition Day'.
Whereas in 1916 the Congress authorized the establishment of high school
divisions of the Reserve Officer Training Corps;
Whereas hundreds of high schools across the United States, and United States
operated high schools abroad, offer High School Reserve Officer Training
Corps programs of the vario