 
--S.J.Res. 329--
S.J.Res. 329
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
To designate the week of November 3, 1990, to November 10, 1990, as `National
Week to Commemorate the Victims of the Famine in the Ukraine, 1932-1933',
and to commemorate the Ukrainian famine of 1932-1933 and the policies of
Russification to suppress Ukrainian identity.
Whereas more than 7 million Ukrainians in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, one of the member republics of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, died of starvation during the years 1932-1933;
Whereas the famine of 1932-1933 was the consequence of deliberate policies of
the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics aiming to destroy
the political, cultural, and human rights of the Ukrainian people;
Whereas the economic, social, and political consequences of the famine of
1932-33 are still manifest among the Ukrainian population;
Whereas the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, although
aware of the famine in Ukraine and having complete control of the entire
food supplies within the borders of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
nevertheless failed to take relief measures to check the famine of 1932-33
or to alleviate the catastrophic conditions resulting from it;
Whereas the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ignored
the appeals of international organizations and other nations;
Whereas the United States Commission on the Ukraine Famine, legislated to
study and expand world knowledge of the famine, has substantiated, through
hearings, eyewitness testimony, and documentation, that the Ukrainian famine
of 1932-1933 was the result of a deliberate policy by the Government of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and has published those findings;
Whereas on February 7, 1990, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of
Ukraine acknowledged that the Ukrainian famine of 1932-1933 was artificially
created by the policies of Stalin and his closest associates;
Whereas the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has
a long history of suppression of Ukrainian aspirations for the exercise
of legitimate human rights and the expression of the cultural and social
heritage of Ukrainians; and
Whereas the United States has made intercessions at various times during
the course of its history on behalf of citizens of other countries who are
oppressed or persecuted by their governments, reflecting the traditional
policy of the United States to take cognizance of such abuses of human rights
and liberties: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled, That--
 (1) the week of November 3, 1990, through November 10, 1990, is designated
 as `National Week to Commemorate the Victims of the Famine in Ukraine,
 1932-1933'; and
 (2) the President is requested to issue a proclamation calling on the people
 of the United States, State and local government agencies, and interested
 organizations to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, activities,
 and programs.
 SEC. 2. Congress condemns the systematic disregard for human life, human
 rights, and liberties that characterized the policies of the Government
 of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics during the Ukrainian famine of
 1932-1933 and expresses sympathy for the millions of victims of the famine.
 SEC. 3. The President is requested to use public and diplomatic channels
 to call the attention of the world to the policies of the Union of Soviet
 Socialist Republics that--
 (1) caused the slow death by famine of 7 million Ukrainians during 1932
 and 1933; and
 (2) for much of the modern history of Ukraine, have suppressed Ukrainian
 aspirations for the exercise of human rights and the expression of the
 cultural and social heritage of Ukrainians.
 SEC. 4. Congress recognizes the reforms underway in Ukraine and strongly
 urges the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to--
 (1) continue to move forward toward democratization and restructuring; and
 (2) provide a framework for the realization of the legitimate rights and
 aspirations of the people of Ukraine.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.