 
--S.J.Res.281--
S.J.Res.281
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
To designate September 13, 1990, as `National D.A.R.E. Day'.
Whereas D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) is a comprehensive program
under which children from kindergarten through the 12th grade are taught
how to resist the pressures of experimenting with drugs and alcohol;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program provides parents with the information and
techniques necessary to reinforce and further develop the decisions of their
children to lead drug free-lives;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program targets children at ages when they are most
vulnerable to extreme peer pressure to try drugs and alcohol and teaches
them how effectively to resist pressure to engage in negative behavior;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program is now conducted in local schools in more
than 2,000 communities in 49 States and in Department of Defense Overseas
Dependent Schools worldwide;
Whereas more than 4,500,000 school children will be reached through the
D.A.R.E. core curriculum in 1990;
Whereas, school children are sometimes more streetwise about substance abuse
than are classroom teachers, the D.A.R.E. program is taught by veteran police
officers having direct experience with cases involving criminal drug offenses
and with people whose lives have been ruined by substance abuse;
Whereas each police officer who teaches the D.A.R.E. program completes an
80-hour training course that includes instruction in teaching techniques,
relationships between officers and schools, self-esteem development, child
development, and communication skills;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. curriculum, developed by the Los Angeles Police Department
and the Los Angeles Unified School District, helps school children understand
self-image, recognize and manage stress without using drugs or alcohol,
analyze and resist media presentations about drugs and alcohol, evaluate
risk-taking behavior, resist gang pressure, apply decision-making skills,
and evaluate the consequences of the choices facing them;
Whereas independent research shows that the D.A.R.E program has exceeded
its goal of helping students combat peer pressure to use drugs and alcohol
by contributing to improved study habits and grades, by reducing vandalism
and gang activity, and by instilling greater respect for police officers; and
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program has achieved outstanding success teaching
positive and effective approaches to one of the most difficult problems
facing young people today, namely drug and alcohol abuse: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That September 13, 1990, is designated
 as `National D.A.R.E. Day', and the President is requested to issue a
 proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe that
 day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.